The similiarity between Kant's and Wittgenstein's trains of thought has been expounded before for sure. http://ndpr.nd.edu/review.cfm?id=1120 A good example is found in a book review by Eric Loomis. 

Where as Kant's 'Copernican revolution' was a defence against skepticism, i.e. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hume#Causation David Hume's theory of causation, Wittgenstein's language games is closely linked to theories of truth and meaning. 

Kant's http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critique_of_Pure_Reason twelve categories - or twelve pure concepts of understanding expounded in 'Critique of Pure Reason' - is all about conceptualizing what we perceive in order to be able to have a thought process - or our 'bringing objecthood and properties' to the 'Manifold'. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gottlob_Frege Gottlob Frege (1848-1925) and his later disciple, Ludwig (1889-1951) Wittgeinstein were turned towards a philosophical theory of language from what for Frege started as studies in mathematics and logic (see 'http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linguistic_turn Linguistic turn')
I think what you are looking for is http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-temporal/ Temporal Logic -- from SEP's entry:


  [Temporal logic] been broadly used to cover all approaches to the representation of temporal information within a logical framework, and also more narrowly to refer specifically to the modal-logic type of approach introduced around 1960 by Arthur Prior under the name of Tense Logic and subsequently developed further by logicians and computer scientists.
  
  Applications of Temporal Logic include its use as a formalism for clarifying philosophical issues about time, as a framework within which to define the semantics of temporal expressions in natural language, as a language for encoding temporal knowledge in artificial intelligence, and as a tool for handling the temporal aspects of the execution of computer programs


  I know that every language must have undefinable/primitive notions/concepts* but aside from within formal systems in logic, set theory, and mathematics have I seen one. Has anyone been able to prove that a particular word is undefinable?


You are using the word "language" to encompass very different kinds of languages, i.e. you are unduly mixing together http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formal_language formal languages and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language natural/http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructed_language constructed languages.


Formal languages are structured deductively and that's is why you have primitive notions. 
Natural/constructed languages are not structured deductively and thus do not have (stable) primitive notions. They have more of a network-like structure and the meaning of terms are not set only (or mainly) by http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intensional_definition intensional definitions, but also (and mainly) by partial http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensional_definition extensional definitions, particularly http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ostensive_definition ostensive definitions.


As your question regards the Theaetetus, I take it that you are interested in primitive notions in (2). The answer to your question


  Is there a particular word/concept/notion that has been undefinable? 


is therefore: no, there is not. 

There are a few qualifications to this answer: 


There are no particular undefinable words unless you come up with a http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logical-empiricism/#EmpVerAntMet restrictive criterion of meaning which discard certain words of an established language as meaningless.
Some philosophers argued that certain concepts are undefinable. The most famous instance is http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G._E._Moore G. E. Moore's claim that the moral term "good" is undefinable. (See his so called http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-question_argument open-question argument for more details).
Further, you might be interested in the so called http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_analysis paradox of analysis, which is related to your initial worry.




Bonus-answer ;)

Now, if you read the Theaetetus, I'll see that Theaetetus gives partial extensional definitions in response to Socrates question. Socrates in turn tries to delegitimize extensional definitions by implying that they are no definitions at all. Instead, he requests intensional definitions, implying that they are the only (relevant?) type of definitions:


  Soc. Do you hear, Theaetetus, what Theodorus says? The philosopher, whom you would not like to disobey, and whose word ought to be a command to a young man, bids me interrogate you. Take courage, then, and nobly say what you think that knowledge is. 
  
  Theaet. Well, Socrates, I will answer as you and he bid me; and if make a mistake, you will doubtless correct me. 
  
  Soc. We will, if we can. 
  
  Theaet. Then, I think that the sciences which I learn from Theodorus-geometry, and those which you just now mentioned-are knowledge; and I would include the art of the cobbler and other craftsmen; these, each and all of, them, are knowledge. 
  
  Soc. Too much, Theaetetus, too much; the nobility and liberality of your nature make you give many and diverse things, when I am asking for one simple thing. 
  
  Theaet. What do you mean, Socrates? 
  
  Soc. Perhaps nothing. I will endeavour, however, to explain what I believe to be my meaning: When you speak of cobbling, you mean the art or science of making shoes? 
  
  Theaet. Just so. 
  
  Soc. And when you speak of carpentering, you mean the art of making wooden implements? 
  
  Theaet. I do. 
  
  Soc. In both cases you define the subject matter of each of the two arts? 
  
  Theaet. True. 
  
  Soc. But that, Theaetetus, was not the point of my question: we wanted to know not the subjects, nor yet the number of the arts or sciences, for we were not going to count them, but we wanted to know the nature of knowledge in the abstract. Am I not right? 
  
  (http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/theatu.html http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/theatu.html)

There were at least three different idealistic positions regarding the existence of mathematical objects:


Mathematical concepts like geometry or logic exist before any (physical) experience in our mind and are what enables us to have and interpret experiences. Mathematical objects exist a priory as categories of our mind.
Mathematical objects exist in a stronger and more real sense than physical objects. Physical objects only exist as shadows of ideal objects, while mathematical objects exist as ideal objects.
The existence or non-existence of mathematical objects tells us something about the existence or non-existence of actual or possible physical objects with corresponding properties.


Common to all three position is a strong commitment to the existence of mathematical objects and to the falsifiable consequences of that existence. These strong forms of idealism have actually been falsified theoretically and practically by progress on the foundations of mathematics and the tremendous success of abstract mathematics. (But the strong forms of formalism have also been falsified.)

You might want to consider some potential commitments related to strong forms of mathematical idealism: Foundations of mathematics are neither necessary nor possible. Axioms have to be intuitively true, like Euclid's axioms for geometry. Mathematical object are at least as real as any object in the physical world. The question of whether objects like zero, infinity, square root of two, or square root of minus one actually exist is non-trivial and must be answered for each of these objects separately.

Note The above description is neither historically correct nor does it give full justice to the corresponding positions. However, I preferred to give a description of idealistic positions which still includes its rough edges, as a contrast to the "why should we care" position of fictionalism.
Why would you say that this is a "statement about morals"? I'd say it's a "counsel of prudence" (Kant, "Ratschlag der Klugheit"), a hypothetical imperative of the second subcategory. It's not wrong to commit an irreversible act in the sense that the act is a morally bad type of act; one should simply avoid it because one knows that one cannot foresee the consequences of the act. As a maxim you'd not only apply it to ethical decisions, but to decisions in general. Therefore this maxim does not need an ethical ground, just reason.
Svabhāva is a bivalent term in Madhyamaka thought; on the one hand, it corresponds (roughly) to Spinoza's notion of substance; on the other hand, it corresponds (roughly) to a Platonic conception of Essence.

Jan Westerhoff's book Nāgārjuna's Madhyamaka: A Philosophical Introduction does a nice job of covering the territory.

If you are interested in reading Nāgārjuna in more depth, Priest's co-author on the paper you cite, Jay Garfield, has published a nice translation with commentary (aimed at a Western audience) of Nāgārjuna's Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way.
You seem to throw together two interesting, but distinct topics:


The question about the existence of social facts.
The question about what kind of semantics one should adopt when understanding how everyday concepts work (or the more narrow question about which semantics works best in the case of social facts).


1) The existence of social facts

If you believe that there actually are "brute facts" out there in the world, which would also exist if there were no human beings (say, a mountain), then a very basic way to phrase the puzzle is: There seem to be things which wouldn't exist without human beings recognizing them as such; at the same time, they are not subjective in the sense that if you wouldn't believe in them, they would therefore cease to exist. Such things are five-dollar bills, driver's licenses, being married to someone, etc. In John Searle's parlance they are epistemically objective (they are not a matter of individual preference or opinion), but may be ontologically subjective (they depend for their existence on being agreed upon). I may suggest that Mona Lisa is one if these things. 

There is a whole field dedicated to this question called social ontology.

You may want to read John Searle's The Construction of Social Reality as an easy introductory text.

2) The semantics of concepts

Aristotle codified a view which became the major (only?) theory of concepts: Concepts are categories characterized by a set of properties which are shared by their members. The set of properties set both the necessary and sufficient conditions to include or exclude some item from the category.

This view led in the 20th century to extensional or intensional semantics, in their set-theoretic approaches.

This view was first (as far as I know) challenged as a model of how to think about ordinary language by Ludwig Wittgenstein. He observed that concepts are vague in their application and that a better analogy - he never construed a theoretical model - might be http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Family_resemblance family resemblance:


  I can think of no better expression to characterize these similarities than "family resemblances"; for the various resemblances between members of a family: build, features, colour of eyes, gait, temperament, etc. etc. overlap and criss-cross in the same way. […] For instance the kinds of number form a family in the same way. Why do we call something a "number"? Well, perhaps because it has a direct relationship with several things that have hitherto been called number; and this can be said to give it an indirect relationship to other things we call the same name. And we extend our concept of number as in spinning a thread we twist fibre on fibre. And the strength of the thread does not reside in the fact that some one fibre runs through its whole length, but in the overlapping of many fibres. (Philosophical Investigations, §67)
  
  I can give the concept 'number' rigid limits ... that is, use the word "number" for a rigidly limited concept, but I can also use it so that the extension of the concept is not closed by a frontier. And this is how we do use the word "game". For how is the concept of a game bounded? What still counts as a game and what no longer does? Can you give the boundary? No. You can draw one; for none has so far been drawn. (But that never troubled you before when you used the word "game".)
  (Philosophical Investigations, §68)


Basically, even very basic and well-defined concepts like bachelor as "unmarried man" admit counterexamples, i.e. cases where conditions given by the definition do not readily include or exclude some items (think of the pope, a newborn male baby, etc.).

Wittgenstein's remarks eventually led on to new models in cognitive semantics, which departed from definition-based approaches, e.g. the pioneering work of http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleanor_Rosch Eleanor Rosch (who wrote her under-grad thesis on Wittgenstein) on a graded notion of categories; see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prototype_theory Prototype theory.

You may want to read the book Women, Fire and Dangerous Things by another great cognitive linguist, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Lakoff Georg Lakoff, as an introductory text.

As to your question, you may want to read some work by http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morris_Weitz Morris Weitz, who applied Wittgenstein's definition-less approach to the very case of art:


  Weitz argued against the traditional essentialist methodology and proposed using Wittgenstein's family resemblance argument as an alternate method for identifying art objects. Weitz proposed that in asking "what is art?" aestheticians were really asking the wrong question altogether. The question he believed needed to be fundamentally addressed instead was "what kind of concept is 'art'?" Weitz used this question to propel both his defense of Wittgensteinian family resemblances, as well as his defense of art as an 'open concept.' (WP:Morris_Weitz)

Personally, I greatly dislike the (x) notation, as it invites confusion--when you place something other than x inside parentheses, is it universal quantification, or is it to show grouping?  Therefore, I will use ∀(x){...} and ∃(x){...} to mean "for all" and "there exists" respectively so as to be perfectly clear what the variable is and what the predicate is.

With this done, we have either ~∀(∃x){Fx}, which makes no sense because ∃x is not a variable, or ~(∃(x){Fx}) which makes sense and means "it is not true that there exists an x such that Fx".  In fact, in predicate calculus you usually define

∃(x){Fx} iff ~(∀(x){~Fx})


So basically, an existential is just a not-universal.  Now,

~(∃(x){Fx}) iff ~(~(∀(x){~Fx})) iff ∀(x){~Fx}


which is a universal, not a not-universal.  So I would call it universal.
There is no "absolute answer" as to whether there is an absolute infinity, because whether or not you can have an absolute infinity is a function of what mathematical formalism you use.


If you use ZF set theory (with or without the Axiom of Choice), you can for any infinite cardinal construct one which is larger by diagonalization. So even though not all infinities would necessarily be comparable, there would always be one cardinality which was demonstrably larger.
If you use http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Neumann%E2%80%93Bernays%E2%80%93G%C3%B6del_set_theory NBG set theory — a conservative extension ZFC — then there is an absolute infinity: the cardinality of proper classes, which in the usual construction of these things would be identified with the proper class of all http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordinal_number#Von_Neumann_definition_of_ordinals von Neumann ordinals. Of course, this cardinality wouldn't exist as an element in the cardinality function using any conventional set- or class-theoretic construction of functions, because this would require the infinite cardinality to be an element of a class, which is impossible for proper classes by definition. But one could certainly make a statement, in NBG theory, about whether or not a class has a bijective mapping to the universal class, which would certainly indicate that it had the largest cardinality.


One criticism that you might make is that you could always make a model for NBG in some other set theory in which there are no proper classes. (This is essentially what you point out with inaccessible cardinals). Because one can always extend beyond any one model in which there is a largest cardinality, one can say that in the subject of mathematics — not in any one model, but in the discipline as a whole — there is no absolute infinite. But of course, if you do not fix any theory whatsoever, nothing whatsoever can be absolute. Non-standard models of the Peano Axioms subvert our usual notions of the natural numbers, so that we could not even say with any confidence that there is an absolute notion of a natural number. There isn't even an absolute notion of what it means for a cardinality to be infinite, if you allow the changing of models as you like. You can remedy this by fixing some class of set theories you wish to discuss, but this is just fixing some particular theory — a theory of set-theories — in the same way that selecting NBG or ZFC would be fixing a theory; your answer will depend on what theory you fix.

In order to give any sort of answer, you must fix your domain of discourse sufficiently to give an answer. So depending on how you want to fix the terms of your question, the answer is either


"yes there is" (as in NBG set theory, or a meta-theory which is like it),
"no there isn't" (as in ZFC set theory, or a meta-theory which is like it), or
"we can't answer the question" (because the terms haven't been defined well enough).

It seems to me that Blake is observing how some social institutions either require (as in prisons) or encourage the development (as in brothels) of other institutions. The roles played by prisons and brothels are different on their face, however. 


A prison is an institution which is required by a legal system which wishes to restrict people's freedom as a punishment or safeguard; Blake observes that without law (whether formalised or not), there would be no prisons.
A brothel is not an institution which is required by nearly any religion today — quite the opposite, of course — but Blake seems to imply that because of social mores developed by religion regarding promiscuity, and because of people's natural drives, there will arise institutions to allow people to exercise those drives beyond the edges of polite society.


Aside from the dis-analogy between an institutions which arise through societies intentions (prisons) rather than in spite of them (brothels), one could criticise Blake for a somewhat oversimplified view of sexual mores and drives. Is Blake of the opinion that without religion, sexual freedom would be so total that everyone could find a willing conjugal partner (or several), who fulfils their desires whenever they want? People are more complicated than this, especially when it comes to sex. But because of the intoxicating qualities of sexual desire, and social awareness of that quality of desire, it would be natural to find social mores arising around how one pursues sex, just as there are mores concerning other intoxicants such as alcohol. Just as naturally, there will be people who are impatient with those mores, whatever they may be; and there will also quite likely be people who, for some reason, find themselves in the position where selling sexual favours seems either necessary or at least expedient. As long as there are people looking for sex beyond the moral norms of society, and people willing to offer sex-as-service, prostitution or something like it will exist.
It depends on your point of view. You can define something by opposition, A=-B, but you can define positively  A=B or tautologically A=A. Words are defined positively. In politics you have the same issue. Like Paul Sartre says in Critic of the Dialectical Reason the jew has defined himself firstly as opposed to the anti-Semitic.Then he defined himself through the figure of the State of Israel. And lastly, he defined himself by finding his singular character, by asserting his uniqueness.

In the case of the "nothing", you can have a purely logic concept who opposes to the being concept, or a more metaphisical concept (like medieval notion of nothing), where the nothing has it's own (no)-determinations in itself.

Kind regards. 
I think that none of the standard foundational theories in mathematics make an essential use of constants. 

In the example of ZFC, there are no constant symbols in the language, and the official formal language of set theory is commonly taken to have only the set membership relation ∈ and equality, with no constants. As Niel says in the comments, the axiom of infinity asserts the existence of an object (an inductive set), but this is an existence assertion that can be made without necessarily introducing any constants. 

In the case of arithmetic, although the usual axiomatizations of PA involve two constants, one for 0 and one for 1, in fact both of these can be omitted without sacrificing the expressibility of the theory. The reason is that 0 is a definable object, for it is the unique natural number that is not S(x) for any x, and therefore we do not need the constant symbol 0 to refer to it. Similarly, the number 1 is definable as the successor of the unique object that is not a successor, and so we do not need 1 in in the language. 

So it seems that the answer to your question is that yes, indeed, there are foundational theories of mathematics without constants, and the standard foundational theories of arithmetic and of set theory can be undertaken without constants. 
Although the practices in current ideas of mindfulness, such as breathing exercises and the particularly Eastern metaphysical ideas about the self (like in, for example, Reiki) wouldn't specifically have been invoked by anyone in ancient Greece, there are strong parallels with the theorising of http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/stoicism/ the Stoics (SEP Article), and in their conception of Philosophy itself.  Consider, for instance, the following cool quote from http://www.ptypes.com/primary_passions Cicero:


  But there is one method of healing both distress and all other diseases of the soul, namely to show that all are matters of belief and consent of the will and are submitted to simply because such submission is thought to be right. This deception, as being the root of all evil, philosophy promises to drag out utterly.


The Stoics argued that the correct approach to Passions, being emotional states of being where the mind is specifically moved to act in a way contrary to reason, nature or virtue, is to recognise them through a life of practiced philosophical self-awareness and to thereby be equipped to resist their influence.  This seems very much in line with eastern ideas of mindfulness.

  Thinking creates its “concepts” out of the visible, in order to
  designate the invisible.
  .. Does this connect to Deleuzes idea of philosophy as he wrote in What is Philosophy?


The answer to this must be no, it does not connect. What is Philosophy draws 3 clear distinctions - Art; which he describes as the creation of percepts and affects; science; which he describes as the creation of functions; and philosophy, which he describes as the creation of concepts. The conditions of emergence for each three domains have a qualitatively distinct character, and each domain has a fundamentally different goal. Simpy put sensibility is not the origin of concepts. Although Deleuze always considered himself a philosopher of the virtual, which I assume you (i suppose not entirely unfairly) equate with the invisible, the important distinction to focus on to make this clearer is the difference between Deleuzian Ideas (which are always virtual, see his chapter Ideas and the Synthesis of Difference from Difference and Repetition) and concepts (which are actual, see What is Philosophy). The aim of concepts is not to designate the structure of Ideas, since to Deleuze this is impossible as they are not clear and distinct as in Descartes, (rather 'vague-destinct', as in Leibniz). Simply put concepts rather specify new ways for ideas to become actualised. The best text I can recommend for clarification of this is What is Philosophy?.
The second sentence means this:


  For every person x and temperature t, if x has a temperature t above
  37, x has fever.


I would say is false, because one could be in an oven at any given temperature above 37, without having real fever, because fever is supposed to be caused by an illness.

The equivalence is false.
ZFC is simple enough to axiomatise easily, and be accepted by the majority of mathematicians - some did not - and complex enough to ask good questions that have amenable answers. Once axiomatised and understood sufficiently well, one can look at more complex set theories using ZFC as a base. 

One angle in more complex set theories is to think of the axiom of infinity. The usual one in ZFC is the simplest infinite axiom. There are a number of others - usually known as the large cardinal axioms - that arrange themselves in a linear hierarchy of proof-theoretic strength. That is you can use them to prove stronger  statements, for example Gentzen used one to show that Peano Arithmetic, pace Godel, was consistent. This increase in the size of sets can be seen as including classes and more.

Another is loosening the axiom of extensionality, so that sets with exactly the same elements are not the same, but merely indiscernable (in Liebnizs terminology), or in tradtional mathematical terminology - isomorphic. This route is more fully developed in the topos-theoretic version of set theory or ETCS. Further, seeing that ETCS is a specialised topos, one can consider toposes themselves to be a generalised set theory, and it is noticeable that in the category of toposes that the terminal object is Set - which is telling for the foundational aspect of ZFC. But also, that the forcing construction introduced by Cohen takes a geometric form here - one can consider the Cohen topos which uses the topology of double negation - this is the construction that Godel/Gentzen used to embed classical logic into intuitionistic logic to model forcing. 

Another angle is looking at Choice. ZFC actually is ZF+Choice. Choice has been an axiom that has had controversial implicatons since its introduction. Its at the root of non-measurable sets and of the Banach-Tarski paradox. Its denial leads to the idea of constructive mathematics. Where its not enough to simply assert the existence of some mathematical object - one must also construct it. Generally one also denies LEM - the law of the Excluded Middle. Here one should not operate with sets in classical logic but intuitionistic logic.

Interestingly enough, toposes, when seen as generalised set theories, have as their internal logic as intuitionistic logic. They also have a dimension, so higher toposes, and in fact infinite dimensional toposes have as their logic Martin-Lof dependent type theory - which ties it into ideas of computation. Further, a particular flavour of it, intensional Martin-Lof, can be interpreted as homotopy type theory, which then introduces geometry (aka homotopy) into type theory.

One notes in this that toposes tie in three strands of modern mathemtics in a native manner - logic, geometry & sets.

Finally, one notices that ZFC is a theory of sets together with first-order logic. One can exchange the logic for another. Intuitionistic logic has been mentioned above, but there is also paraconsistent logic (which is in some sense the dual of intuitionistic logic) which by denying the principle of explosion, allows inconsistent statements, somehow the inconsistencies are controlled so as not to affect each other. One then gets inconsistent set theory - and one gets quite interesting mathematical results - like one can assume the existence of a Universal set and the Russell Set - both of which leads to paradoxes in ZFC. As a further positive virtue, it settles the continuum hypothesis (in the negative). 

All of the above is in the philosophy of mathematics. 

In Philosophy at large, one notes that for example, the French Philosopher & Maoist, Badiou uses ZFC explicitly in his philosophy of Love, Politics & Art. He calls ZFC the ontology of truth. This is explained in his book, Being & Event, and in the Logic of Worlds he goes onto Topos theory to futher extend his line of thought. Quite how this works I'm non too sure of...
This is controversial, both as an interpretation of Aristotle, and as a solution to the problem, but my view is that Aristotle believes in relative identity. In other words, It is possible for the marble to be the same marble, but different materials. It is possible for you to be the same human organism, but a different collection of cells, etc.  This is because, as Mauro points out in the comment above, Aristotle ties the identity over time of a composite material object to the form of the object rather than its matter. As long as the same form remains actively shaping the matter into a unity, then the individual bits of matter can come and go, while the composite remains the same. 
See in SEP the entry on http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/atomism-ancient/ Ancient Atomism :


  ancient atomists theorized that the two fundamental and oppositely characterized constituents of the natural world are indivisible bodies—atoms—and void. The latter is described simply as nothing, or the negation of body. Atoms are by their nature intrinsically unchangeable; they can only move about in the void and combine into different clusters.
  
  The changes in the world of macroscopic objects are caused by rearrangements of the atomic clusters. Atoms can differ in size, shape, order and position (the way they are turned); they move about in the void, and—depending on their shape—some can temporarily bond with one another by means of tiny hooks and barbs on their surfaces. 


It seems that, at least for Democritus, atoms must be interpreted as in the XVII century mechanicist tradition : only shape, size and motion, devoided of "qualities".

If so, they are not like "modern" chemical" molecules, i.e. differentiated according to the elements they form.

But see also Plato's point of view :


  Although the Greek term atomos is most commonly associated with the philosophical system developed by Leucippus and Democritus, involving solid and impenetrable bodies, Plato's Timaeus presents a different kind of physical theory based on indivisibles. The dialogue elaborates an account of the world wherein the four different basic kinds of matter—earth, air, fire, and water—are regular solids composed from plane figures: isoceles and scalene right-angled triangles. Because the same triangles can form into different regular solids, the theory thus explains how some of the elements can transform into one another, as was widely believed.




Extract from GS Kirk & JE Raven, The Presocratic Philosophers (1958), page 406 :


  Leucippus and his associate Democritus hold that the elements are the full and the void; They call them being and not-beingrespectively. Being is full and solid, not-being is void and rare. Since the void exists no less than body, it follows that not-being exists not less than being. The two together are the material causes of existing things. And just as those who make the underlying substance one generate other things by its modifications, and postulate rarefaction and condenstaion as the origin of such modifications, in the same way these men too say that the differences in atoms are the causes of other things. They hold that these differences are three - shape, arrangement and position; being, they say, differs only in 'rythm, touching and turning', of which 'rythm' is shape, 'touching' is arrangement and 'turning' is position; for A differs from N in shape, AN form NA in arrangement and Z form N in position. [Aristotle Met A4, 985b4]


Note that we have to "separate" A's interpretation [see : material causes, substance] from the original D's words (very few).

This is , more or less, what you can find in Constantine Vamvacas, The Founders of Western Thought THE PRESOCRATICS (ed or 2001), page 215.

Other possible references : 

While atoms themselves had no perceptible qualities (qualities are dependent on atoms forming compounds), they did have different shapes and sizes. Aristotle (Metaphysics 985b15–19 = DK67A6; see also Generation and Corruption 315b6–15 = DK67A9) notes that atoms differ in shape (rusmos), arrangement (diathige), and position (trope) (see also Simplicius, Commentary on Aristotle’s Physics 28.15–26. = DK67A8; 68A38). However, arrangement and position are the sine qua non for the formation of compounds. In the final analysis, only size (megethos) and shape (rhusmos) are intrinsic to the atom themselves [Gerard Naddaf, The Greek Concept of Nature (2005), page 154].

Atomism then involves some sort of ontological reduction. But the fundamental properties need not all be similar in type to the ones which they are invoked to explain; and in some cases (particularly those to do with perceptual properties) the apparent macro-properties are simply emergent upon suitable arrangements and configurations of atomic qualities. Atoms really do possess solidity,resi stivity,and weight as well (On Generation and Corruption 1. 8. 326a9–10; Theophrastus, On Senses 61; Simplicius, On ‘On the Heavens’ 712 = 573–5 KRS);243 and these properties are invoked to explain the creation of macroscopic objects,and their behaviours. By contrast, atoms do not have colour, taste,or temperature in and of themselves (215 above; cf. Lucretius 2. 730–864). We do not know precisely how Democritus accounted for perceptual properties, except in the case of taste, where Theophrastus (On Senses 66 = 591 KRS) reports that bitter flavours are caused by ‘small,smooth, rounded atoms’ while saltiness is the result of larger,jag ged atoms (Epicurus offered fuller explanations along the same lines: To Herodotus 51–4; cf. Lucretius 4. 615–72).
Thus whether or not something tastes sweet depends upon a set of facts about its structure that are not themselves phenomenal at all. This supplies the sense to his claim that things are merely by convention hot and cold,sweet and bitter,and so on. [RJ Hankinson, Cause and Explanation in Ancient Greek Thought (1998), page 203].
The big difference is what we are saying is true....  in the second case:
"I have an emotional reaction X" We're saying that it is true that you are having this experience.  But if you said "Murder is yucky" then there is no way to determine whether or not this statement is true, because it is a value judgment about murder.  Its not about whether or not you find it yucky or not.  

Another way of thinking about this:
"Murder is yucky" is a subjective statement that requires the use of a value to analyze the truth or falsity of.

"I am having an emotional reaction to murder that is unpleasant" is an objective statement that hinges on whether or not it is true in reality that the person this sentence references is indeed in this particular emotional state because of the idea "murder."
I think you have the key to the problem when you notice that "every motion must be relative."

Newton, in speaking of a particle "at rest," he is referring to the particle in a particular frame of reference. In saying "A particle at rest tends to stay at rest," you could interpret that as saying that a particle that is not moving with respect to some reference objects tends to stay not moving with respect to those same objects.
From the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/qualia SEP


  Feelings and experiences vary widely. For example, I run my fingers over sandpaper, smell a skunk, feel a sharp pain in my finger, seem to see bright purple, become extremely angry. In each of these cases, I am the subject of a mental state with a very distinctive subjective character. There is something it is like for me to undergo each state, some phenomenology that it has. Philosophers often use the term ‘qualia’ (singular ‘quale’) to refer to the introspectively accessible, phenomenal aspects of our mental lives. In this broad sense of the term, it is difficult to deny that there are qualia.


Heaviness is a feeling - it feels heavy; it has a subjective character - I feel that this suitcase is heavy; it is phenomenal - until I pick up that suitcase it won't feel heavy. Being angry, for example, isn't phenomenal - I can't hear, or see or smell something that makes me angry; this isn't to say that listening to someone libel me won't make me angry, but here it isn't the phenomenal experience of sound that is causing the anger, but what is being said.

So heaviness is an example of qualia - but not a common one. Heaviness is on the perceptual side of perception-physical divide, its corresponding physical cause is pressure.

More commonly, examples are drawn from colour, say  redness, whose physical cause is a certain wavelength of light.
http://php.med.unsw.edu.au/embryology/index.php?title=Timeline_human_development#Week_1 Embryos are a stage in development of human organisms.  

To phrase the issue concisely:  If something is X at the end of a time interval, then either it must become X during that interval, or else it must have been X from the start.

Therefore, becoming X requires a distinct change - "person" is a binary distinction.  There are no "half-person" or "3/7ths person" as valid options.

But physiologically, genetically, biochemically, anatomically - all development is gradual. (Look at the above link and see how slowly we change - and remember that these are a small number of stop-motion frames over 9 months of gradual development in gestation.)

After the formation of the zygote, there are strong scientific arguments that no single defining moment of change in the development from zygote through adult senescence is significant enough of a change to demarcate a change in status to toggle from "not a human life" to "human life."  Nor from "not a person" to "is a person."  

http://www.ghc.org/healthAndWellness/?item=/common/healthAndWellness/pregnancy/birth/laborStages.html (Even birth is a process of several hours to several days, and a journey of almost 2 feet.  At what moment is it a human life or a person?  Out with cord cut? Without it cut? Only head out? Cervix dilated?)

Cognition is also a very gradual development that can vary widely between individuals.  Discussions on this have very diverse opinions.

I argue that if one cannot define criteria for a toggle point, there cannot be a solid argument for any point.  Therefore, if no toggle point can be established, it defaults to the beginning of the line - the first point of formation of that particular human organism.

Otherwise we are stuck in vagueness, ambiguity -- but this is a situation where there absolutely must be a definition; lacking a clear definition of "life" or "person" results in dangerous inconsistencies in discussions on policy, bioethics, and legality.
A "zero-sum" game is one where everything that the winner or winners gain is exactly the same as what the loser or losers lose. Obviously a zero-sum game can be very unjust. If I steal $100 from your pocket, I win $100 and you lose $100, so it's a zero-sum game. If I steal $100 from your pocket by slitting open your pocket, I win $100 and you lose $100 plus your damaged trousers, so we don't have a zero-sum game but an overall loss. 

So the claim is that justice will always benefit one person in exactly the same way as it damages another person. This seems unlikely. In the first place, it claims that getting justice will come for free which is unlikely to be true in most cases. On the other hand, it claims that justice can never be beneficial for both sides. If a thief stealing $100 is plagued by bad conscience that makes him lose his sleep, and he is forced to return the money, he might actually benefit if his bad conscience goes away and he can sleep in the night again - many people would gladly pay $100 for being able to sleep through the night, so that would be a case where both sides actually could benefit. 
Are there non-religious traditions that acknowledge "absolute goodness?"

Here are a couple approaches:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Objectivism_(Ayn_Rand) Objectivism considers there to be such a thing as correct and incorrect moral choices, and happens to originate from an atheist.

Descartes took only his own existence as axiomatic, and from that used only reason to derive moral right and wrong. Of course, he happened to be religious, but I  non-religious people since have taken similar approaches.

Isn't ethics about justice?

If you read about http://www.iep.utm.edu/ethics/ ethics and http://www.iep.utm.edu/justwest/ justice, you will see that justice is only a part of the study of ethics, but it is obviously an important part and it is difficult to discuss ethics without discussing justice. If 


  Normative ethics involves arriving at moral standards that regulate right and wrong conduct.


then it's difficult to discuss right and wrong conduct without discussing what other people are due.

"Moral theories" that don't assume some virtues are absolutely good but can help deciding "What do I do?" in real human affairs?

All moral theories I know are entirely about how to decide what to do in real human affairs - Christianity, Marxism, Stoicism, Consequentialism, Libertarianism, Socialism, etc., all make claims about how we should order our lives and how we should make moral decisions. Some take virtues as their starting point, others start somewhere else but arrive at something much like it. I would challenge you: is there such a thing as a moral theory that doesn't say something about what to do in real human affairs?
Functions and relations have a long mathematical history, and can be approached from many sides (e.g. category theory, set theories). From a standard set-theoretic perspective, we begin with the notion of an ordered pair (a, b), which can either be taken as a primitive or defined in terms purely of sets. Either way, the explication is only to satisfy the following condition: (a, b) = (c, d) iff a = c and b = d. Once we have ordered pairs, we can define relations of arbitrary arity as follows:


  Def 2. (Relations over multiple sets) An n-ary relation over sets A1,...,An is any subset of A1 × ... × An.


Informally, this means that n-ary relation is a set of n-tuples of elements selected from a bunch of sets. A special type of relation used often in introductory logic courses is that of the predicate, which is simply a 1-ary or unary relation over the domain of individuals. In single-sorted logics such as classical first-order logic, the domain of individuals is some set D, so we have a simpler definition of relations:


  Def 3. (Relations over a single set) An n-ary relation on set A is any subset of An.


As examples of such relations take the relations LeftOf, SmallerThan, LessThan, and so on. For 3-ary relations Between, CloserThan come to mind. For 1-ary relations or predicates we have Small, Even, Prime, and so on. Now that we have defined relations, we can define functions in terms of them:


  Def 4. (Functions) An n-ary function from A to B is a total deterministic n-ary relation on A × B.


Relation R ⊆ A × B is total iff for all x ∈ A, there exists a y ∈ B s.t. (x, y) ∈ R. In other words, every element of A is mapped to some element of B. Relation R ⊆ A × B is deterministic iff there is no x ∈ A for which there are y, z ∈ B s.t. (x,  y) ∈ R and (x, z) ∈ R. In other words, every element of A is mapped to no more than one element of B.

                                                                     Application

These notions are applied to natural language semantics exactly in the way you described. Consider:


  (5) Joe is the son of Mary.


If we let 'j' denote Joe, 'm' Mary, we'll have two possible explications of (5): one using a binary relation symbol 'S' (which holds of (x,y) just in case x is the sone of y) and one using the identity relation on the domain of individuals and the unary function symbol 's' (which refers to the unique individual that is the son of x). Following the first way we get:


  (6) S(j, m) ∧ ∀x : S(x,m) → x = j.


This says that John is a son of Mary and every person x who is a son of Mary is John, which is the intended meaning of (5) I assume.
Following the second approach we get:


  (7) j = s(m).


It's easy to check that (6) is true exactly when (7) is true. After all, S is a set of pairs (x, y) s.t. x is a son of y, and the second conjunct of (6) implies that x is j which according to (7) is s(m). 

Remark. The distinction between (6) and (7) roughly corresponds to the famous distinction between Russelian and Fregean views of definite descriptions. According to the Fregean view, 'the φ' denotes the unique individual satisfying condition φ, if such an individual exists. The Russellian view, on the other hand, regards 'the φ' as meaningful only in a context of a complete sentence (e.g. (6)). That, however, is another discussion.

                                                                     References

Halmos, P. (1960) http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/1614271313 Naive Set Theory; Chapters 6–8.
Heim, I., Kratzer, A. (1998) http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0631197133 Semantics in Generative Grammar; §4.4.
I haven't read your link, but I will explain the two terms in Kant. Regrettably, they are not easy to understand or follow, because they are tightly integrated into Kant's philosophy of mind, which is probably unfamiliar territory and understands the mind in a very different way than your average man on the street. 

I would suggest you start here with the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-spacetime/ SEP entry on Kant and space-time. Basic idea is this: For Kant, space and time are things we bring to our perceiving of the world rather than things we get from the world. There are two interpretations of what he's saying. Kant's detractors and postmodernists primarily maintain the metaphysical reading whereby Kant would be saying that time and space don't exist in the real world. They only exist as mind brings them. Kant's defenders almost all disagree and maintain the epistemological reading whereby what Kant is saying is that for us as human perceivers, we bring time and spaces as forms of sensibility. In strong support of the latter is Kant's refutation of idealism in Critique of Pure Reason.

Building on top of this, Kant thinks that to move from perception to objects we add to the forms of sensibility categories of the understanding. Kant believes there are exactly twelve such categories, conveniently grouped (or contrived) into four groups of three each. 

You can read more also on the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/categories/ SEP entry on categories. For our purposes what matters is the grouping called "modality." For Kant, the possible, the existent, and the necessary form a set. And when we have knowledge of an object, we place it under one of these categories. The possible and the potential are synonymous, so when we experience an object under the category of the potential, we believe the object to have capacities not presently realized in time which we would sense as it is realized.
You can avoid step 2), i.e. the assumption ¬ C, with a longer derivation.

I'll use the natural deduction rules of :


Michael Huth & Mark Ryan, http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/052154310X LOGIC IN COMPUTER SCIENCE : Modelling and Reasoning about Systems (2nd ed 2004), page 27.




(A ↔ B) → C ⊢ ¬ (A & B) ∨ C

Proof :

1) (A ↔ B) → C --- premise

2) A & B --- assumed [a]

3) A --- from 2) by &E

4) B → A --- from 3) by →I

5) B --- from 2) by &E

6) A → B --- from 5) by →I

7) (A → B) & (B → A) --- from 4) and 6) by &I

8) A ↔ B --- from 7) by ↔I

9) C --- from 8) and 1) by →E

10) ¬ (A & B) ∨ C --- from 9) by ∨I

11) ¬ [¬ (A & B) ∨ C] --- assumed [b]

12) ¬ (A & B) --- from 2)-10) and 11) by ¬I : if φ ⊢ ⊥, then ⊢ ¬φ, discharging [a]

13) ¬ (A & B) ∨ C --- from 12) by ∨I 

14) ¬ ¬ [¬ (A & B) ∨ C] --- from 11) and 13) by ¬I, discharging [b]


  
    15) ¬ (A & B) ∨ C --- from 14) by ¬¬E : ¬¬φ ⊢ φ
  

Probably the best quote, https://isidore.co/aquinas/PostAnalytica.htm#213 Posteriora Analytica l. 13 n. 7:


  …quia formæ essentiales non sunt nobis per se notæ, oportet quod manifestentur per aliqua accidentia, quæ sunt signa illius formæ, ut patet in https://isidore.co/aquinas/Metaphysics8.htm#2 VIII Metaphys. Non autem oportet accipere accidentia propria illius speciei, quia talia oportet per definitionem speciei demonstrari; sed oportet notificari formam speciei per aliqua accidentia communiora; et secundum hoc differentiæ assumptæ dicuntur quidem substantiales, in quantum inducuntur ad declarandum formam essentialem, sunt autem communiores specie, in quantum assumuntur ex aliquibus signis, quæ consequuntur superiora genera.
  
  …because the essential forms are not known to us per se, they must be disclosed through certain accidents which are signs of that form, as is stated in https://isidore.co/aquinas/Metaphysics8.htm#2 Metaphysics VIII [1042b9-1043a28: "Form Inferred from Accidental Differences in Sensible Substances"]. However, one should not take the proper accidens of that species, because they are the ones that will be demonstrated by the definition of the species; rather the form of the species must be made known by certain accidents that are more common. Hence according to this, the differences which are used are indeed called substantial, inasmuch as they are adduced in order to declare the essential form; but they are more common than the species, inasmuch as they are taken from signs which follow upon higher genera.


Others:https://isidore.co/aquinas/DeEnte&Essentia.htm De Ente et Essentia, cap. 4:


  In rebus enim sensibilibus etiam ipsæ differentiæ essentiales nobis ignotæ sunt, unde significantur per differentias accidentales, quæ ex essentialibus oriuntur, sicut causa significatur per suum effectuum
  
  For even in the case of sensible things, the essential differences themselves are not known; whence they are signified through accidental differences which rise out of the essential ones, as a cause is signified through its effect


https://isidore.co/aquinas/QDdeSpirCreat.htm#11 De Spirit. Creaturis, a. 11, ad 3:


  Formæ substantiales per seipsas sunt ignotæ; sed innotescunt nobis per accidentia propria.  Frequenter enim differentiæ substantiales ab accidentibus sumunutr, loco formarum substantialum quæ per huiusmodi accidentia innotescunt; sicut bipes et gressibile et hujusmodi; et sic etiam sensibile et rationale ponuntur differentiæ substantiales.
  
  because substantial forms in themselves are unknown but become known to us by their proper accidents, substantial differences are frequently taken from accidents instead of from the substantial forms which become known through such accidents; as, for example, "biped" and "able to walk" and the like; and so also "sensible" and "rational" are put down as substantial differences.


https://isidore.co/aquinas/summa/FP/FP029.html#FPQ29A2THEP1 ST I, 29, 1, ad 3


  quia substantiales differentiæ non sunt nobis notæ, vel etiam nominatæ non sunt, oportet interdum uti differentiis accidentalibus loco substantialium, puta si quis diceret, ignis est corpus simplex, calidum et siccum, accidentia enim propria sunt effectus formarum substantialium, et manifestant eas. Et similiter nomina intentionum possunt accipi ad definiendum res, secundum quod accipiuntur pro aliquibus nominibus rerum quæ non sunt posita. Et sic hoc nomen individuum ponitur in definitione personæ, ad designandum modum subsistendi qui competit substantiis particularibus.
  
  Substantial differences being unknown to us, or at least unnamed by us, it is sometimes necessary to use accidental differences in the place of substantial; as, for example, we may say that fire is a simple, hot, and dry body: for proper accidents are the effects of substantial forms, and make them known. Likewise, terms expressive of intention can be used in defining realities if used to signify things which are unnamed. And so the term "individual" is placed in the definition of person to signify the mode of subsistence which belongs to particular substances.


(courtesy http://www.suscipedomine.com/forum/index.php?topic=9455.msg202693#msg202693 this)
For a mathematical example, see the "standard" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/(%CE%B5,_%CE%B4)-definition_of_limit epsilon-delta definition of limit :


  for all epsilon, exists a delta such that, for all x ... 


For a natural language example, see Jan von Plato, http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/110761077X Elements of Logical Reasoning (2013), page 118 :


  A sequence of quantifiers such as ∀x∃y∀z is quite natural.
  
  
    There is for every person some problem on which every attempt will fail. 
  
  
  The three-place relation here is: person x fails on problem y in attempt z. This example also illustrates the choice of a domain. In this case the domain seems to contain, at least, persons, problems, and attempts. There is a threeplace relation that we can write as Fail(x, y, z), in which x is a person, y a problem, and z an attempt. These have to go in the right places in the relation. 
  
  The usual way to do it is to introduce predicates such as Person(x), Problem(y), and Attempt(z), and to write the formalization as in:
  
  
    ∀x∃y∀z [Person(x) and Problem(y) and Attempt(z) → Fail(x, y, z) ].
  




Note that 


  ∀x∃y∀zRxyz 


by Double Negation is equivalent to :


  ¬¬∀x∃y∀zRxyz.


Now, using the rules for quantifiers :


¬∀ is equivalent to ∃¬


and :


¬∃ is equivalent to ∀¬


we can "move inside" the inner negation, getting :


  
    ¬∃x∀y∃z¬Rxyz.
  


Thus, the two formulae are equivalent.



Thus, the equivalent version of :


  There is for every person some problem on which every attempt will fail


can be read as :


  There is no person such that for every problem there is an attempt which does not fail. 

1 is not a number because 1 happens to be the (a?) unit. And a number, by definition, is a multitude of units. So clearly then, the two are distinct.

See Metaphysics 1052b35, Posterior Analytics 72a22, and Topics 108b30. To see why, for example, 2 is a number whereas 1 is a unit, see Metaphysics 1039a15.
There's two ways of getting out of sub-arguments. 

One is proving that their outcomes are contradictory. This proves the opposite in the frame of the assumptions of the main argument.

The other is to discharge it as a conditional. In other words, you keep that this is an assumption but you transpose it as an instance of conditional. (This seems way harder reading the words than it is).

Or to put it another way, there's no difference between making a subargument and seeing what would be the case were the assumption of your subargument true. The conditional is in a sense just a short hand for a sub argument -- which under modus ponens of that assumption would obtain.
Yes, according to Lewis. In Lewis' modal realism, to say that some statement R(x) is possible dictates that a possible world exists in which R(x) is not only possible but actually true. This stance is called alethic modality (intimately related to epistemic modality in philosophy of language). Note that Lewis does not claim that for each statement R, a possible world exists in which R holds (consider a world in which R and not R are true at once - such a world cannot exist in an alethic modal sense if we are interested in retaining the Law of Noncontradiction.
It is difficult to say exactly what the "opposite" of a paradox might be given your definition, because quite obviously all sentences are true if they are true and false if they are false!  Perhaps a way to think of your paradox sentences is as sentences that can receive no consistent semantic value, where their opposite would be a sentence that could receive any semantic value consistently (or more liberally, more than one).

Specifically, the sentence you referred to (if it is a sentence!) is sometimes called the Truthteller sentence.  A Truthteller sentence is mentioned in Kripke's http://philo.ruc.edu.cn/logic/reading/Kripke_%20Theory%20of%20Truth.pdf Outline of a Theory of Truth as an example of an ungrounded sentence - intuitively, a sentence whose semantic value is somehow undetermined by the facts of the world.  However, in Kripke's analysis of the Truth predicate, it's important to note that the Liar sentence (and similar paradoxical sentences) is also ungrounded in the sense that he's trying to capture, as a consequence of its self-referential character.

Distinguishing the truth-teller sentence from other ungrounded sentences requires us to have access to a certain amount of semantic technology that it's not clear that we can necessarily expect to have, depending on your theories about the functioning of the Truth predicate.  For instance, proponents of http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/truth-revision/#SupSem Revision Theories of Truth would argue that the most we can say about the truth-teller is that it is neither categorically true nor categorically false, but that it might nonetheless have some truth value, conditional on some background hypothesis, just as with almost any other aspect of semantic interpretation.
The issue is with the difference, according to Russell, between proper names and descriptions.

See :


Bertrand Russell, https://books.google.it/books?id=Bty-hdFVc_YC&pg=PA294 An Inquary Into Meaning and Truth : The William James Lectures (1940), page 294,


and the discussion in :


Saul Kripke, https://books.google.it/books?id=9vvAlOBfq0kC&pg=PA6 Naming and Necessity (revised ed - 1980), page 6-on.


A proper name, in Kripke's terms, is a rigid designator, i.e. it must denote an object.

According to Kripke's reading of Russell, most of "names" are not "real" names, but only descriptions.

Russell's analysis of http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/descriptions/ Descriptions can be illustrated by the well know example :


  "the present King of France is bald"


which must be analyzed as :


  ∃x(King_of_France(x) & ∀y(King_of_France(y) → x=y) & bald(x)).


Due to to the fact that France is a republic, there is no present King of France; thus the clause King_of_France(x) is never satisfied, and so is the conjunction; thus, the existentially quantified sentence is false.

Conclusion : the sentence is false.

If we use insted a "real" propre name in a "logically perfect" language, we assume that it has reference; this is so in the current semantics for first-order logic.

Being so, we are entitled to assert the following logical law :


  ∃x(x=c)


for any (individual) constant of the language.

Thus, what happens with Hamlet ?

If we are interpreting our language in the "real" world, clearly Hamlet has no reference, and thus we have not : ∃x(x=Hamlet). But we cannot "violate" logical laws...

Thus, we have to ban names (individual constants) without reference; expressions with names without reference are "un-grammatical", i.e. they are not well-formed expressions :


  This illustrates one of the peculiarities of proper names: that, unlike descriptions, they are meaningless unless there is an object which they designate.


If we want to use "Hamlet" meaningfully, we have to treat it as a description, something like :


  the fictional character of Shakespeare's play.

Physically, perhaps the universe will come to a standstill, and from then on there won't be any more events.

But I don't see any logical reason, something in the event concept itself, why an event can't go on forever. For example, consider a small round patch, whose colors change constantly. Or a particle that moves through space, and will never stop. Or a perpetuum mobile..
Davidson used alternatively the terms substance or object for this basic kind of entities.


  Many events are changes in a substance. If an event a is a change in some substance, then a = b only if b is also a change in the same substance . . . But it would be a mistake to suppose that even for events that are naturally described as changes in an object, we must describe them . . . by referring to the object. (http://books.google.co.il/books?id=Bj2HHI0c2RIC&lpg=PA173&vq=substance&pg=PA173#v=onepage&q&f=false "The Individuation of Events")


Another (non Davidsonian) terminological option is to speak about spatial particulars or individuals (=substances) vs. temporal particulars (=events).

Persons are regarded in many ontologies as just substances (e.g. in Aristotle) or objects (as in Davidson). But there are also exceptions. Kant stressed the difference between subject and object, although in his system the term subject is not ontological. Heidegger posited the person as a special kind of entity. His ontological term is Dasein i.e. being-there. Sartre posited a similar ontological category for persons, and adopted for it Hegel's term being-for-itself).
You can use an  "obtain" predicate but it sounds very much like Meinong's distinction between being and existence, and it's not a very popular solution.

Predicates are used to denote properties but it is doubtful that existence (or "obtaining") is a property as such. 

See this article for alternatives: http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/nonexistent-objects/ http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/nonexistent-objects/
The two "golden rules" are very similar, but Kant's is strictly deontic and nonconsequentialist. It may even be arguable that its deontic, theological perspective could mandate actions that are not necessarily "good" for a given society or even for "humanity" per se. It is notoriously ill-suited to a complex division of labor in civil society and hence criticized as an empty formalism by Hegel and others.

Rawls is not a consequentialist and is explicitly an opponent of utilitarianism. Nonetheless, his rules do seem more practical than idealist, with hints of a redescription of "state of nature" arguments. Nor are his rules commands to the "will" or eternal souls of individuals, even if no one is watching, so to speak.

To address the question more closely, Rawls derives the "difference principle" from the first two, I believe, and I am wondering if this principle is compatible with Kant's CI? Not obviously. And again, Rawls is generally addressing diverse behaviors where Kant addresses the "will."

The approaches all seem to be in the same spirit, along with Habbermas's "ideal speech situation," and are admirable alternatives to the flaws of utilitarianism. But "derivable"? I can't see them nested in that way. It seems to me hard to get anything from formal CI alone that is applicable to human practices here on planet earth.       
This is one case where the language might help. In http://www.amazon.de/Ludwig-Wittgenstein-Reader-Herausgegeben-Anthony/dp/B002DZPTJW the original German1,  he writes:

 1      Die Welt ist alles, was der Fall ist.
 1.1    Die Welt ist die Gesamtheit der Tatsachen, nicht der Dinge.
 1.11   Die Welt ist durch die Tatsachen bestimmt und dadurch, daß *alle* Tatsachen sind.


The key word in 1.11 is bestimmt (determined, selected, decided, or caused). This is not to be read as a Tatsache (fact) itself, because by using the word bestimmt he indicates a distinction between what a fact is, and what the case (der Fall) is. To say something is determined is like to say (in the language) that something has been caused to be so. To be determined is not itself an abstract fact (Tatsache), but an immanent constituent of the way things are.

In essence Wittgenstein's opening boils down to the incontrovertible statement that the way things are, are the way they are, because of the facts that make them so. This principle cannot be unpacked as a fact itself, or it would be a fact determining a fact. That it was determined by a fact makes it a case of how things are, not a fact itself.

All of this is borne out by the rest of the section, which reads

1.12    Denn, die Gesamtheit der Tatsachen bestimmt, was der Fall ist und auch, was alles nicht der Fall ist.
1.13    Die Tatsachen im logischen Raum sind die Welt.


1.12.  "Then, the totality of all facts determines what the case is and also, what isn't the case."
  1.13. "The facts in scope of logic are the world."



1 Kenny, A., Wittgenstein, L., 1995. Ein Reader. Reclam, Philipp, jun. GmbH, Verlag, Stuttgart. p. 9.
Language here is Sprache. Heidegger relates this elsewhere in his writing to German versprechen, which means promise, and Anspruch, which means claim. He sees it's Greek root as logos, which he derives from legein, meaning to gather. 

You might be interested to look at On the Way to Language, especially "A Dialogue on Language" where Heidegger poses a question much like the one you're posing to a Japanese interlocutor, and "The Nature of Language" where the Anspruch of language is explored - the claim which ties the human being to language before any particular language or its individual use.
I found an answer:


  Le passage de Taine auquel Heidegger fait allusion se trouve dans la
  Philosophie de l'art, 13e édition, Paris. Hachette. 1909, p. 12. Le
  voici : « Mon seul devoir est de vous exposer des faits et de vous
  montrer comment ces faits se sont produits. La méthode moderne que je
  tache de suivre, et qui commence à s'introduire dans toutes les
  sciences morales, consiste à considérer les œuvres humaines, et en
  particulier les oeuvres d'art, comme des faits et des produits dont il
  faut marquer les caractères et chercher les causes; rien de plus.
  Ainsi comprise la science ne proscrit ni ne pardonne: elle constate et
  explique ». - Dans une lettre à sa femme Elfride du 11 août 1936,
  Heidegger lui demande de chercher l'ouvrage dans la bibliothèque de la
  maison de Fribourg et de l'envoyer à la Halle (M. Heidegger, « Mein
  liebes Seelchen! ». Briefe Martin Heideggers an seine Frau Elfride,
  1915 - 1970, hg. von Gertrud Heidegger, Munich, Deutsche
  Verlags-Anstalt, 2005. p. 192). Je remercie Jean-François Courtine
  pour m'avoir signalé le passage de Taine.


Source:
Franco Volpi, La grammaire et l'étymologie du mot être in: J-Fr. Courtine (ed.), L'introduction á la metaphysique de Heidegger (Vrin), p.136
https://books.google.nl/books?id=o4MtajZUMsUC&pg=PA136 google books

So, it refers to Taine, Philosophie de l'art, p. 12 https://books.google.nl/books?id=WHhKOs6y4MEC&pg=PA12&lpg=PA12 google books:


  Mon seul devoir est de vous exposer des faits et de vous
  montrer comment ces faits se sont produits. La méthode moderne que je
  tache de suivre, et qui commence à s'introduire dans toutes les
  sciences morales, consiste à considérer les œuvres humaines, et en
  particulier les oeuvres d'art, comme des faits et des produits dont il
  faut marquer les caractères et chercher les causes; rien de plus.
  Ainsi comprise la science ne proscrit ni ne pardonne: elle constate et
  explique.


The phrase he uses for 'and nothing more' is 'rien de plus'.
You are correct that the conclusion of any valid deductive argument contains at most a subset of the information contained in the premises.

However, until you work through the proof you don't know if the premises and conclusion actually hold that relationship to one another. What you gain via the deductive argument is new information about the equivalence of things not previously demonstrated to be equivalent.  This can be very useful because it uncovers patterns and relationships that would otherwise be disguised by the superficial differences in the way the equivalent information is expressed.
One way to put the difference is that Emotivism and Quasi-Realism differ in how a reasonable person should interpret the moral claims of others, like "stealing is wrong." 

If Jill says "stealing is wrong," a reasonable person should, according to: 


an Emotivist, treat that statement as merely an expression of Jill's feelings about stealing, comparable to "booo, stealing" or "yuck, stealing." It is not a sentence with the same grammatical structure as "snow is cold," which expresses a potential fact. Instead it is linguistically more akin to a moan or a snarl.
a Quasi-Realist, treat that statement as if it were a claim Jill is making about the objectionableness of stealing. It attributes the property of wrongness to the activity of stealing, just as Jill might attribute coldness to snow. However, the Quasi-Realist, and perhaps even Jill herself and the reasonable interpreter, realize(s) that wrongness is not a real property of things.


Emotivists like Stevenson and Gibbard and Quasi-Realists like Blackburn are somewhat more sophisticated than this, but those are the basic positions.
I would agree that this argument hinges on whether something is pious because it is loved by the gods vs. something is loved by the gods because it is pious.

Your wording of P, Q, and R sound a little funny to me, but my copy of the text is in my office. So it's possible the original is worded similarly.

I see the structure as follows:


Socrates asks for a definition of piety or more specifically what makes an act pious.
Euthyphro states that something is pious because the gods love it.
Socrates asks to understand what it means for the gods to love something.
Euthyphro and Socrates clarify 3 to mean something that all the gods love.
Socrates then suggests that being loved by the gods must necessarily have a cause outside of the mere fact that gods love it. The argument here hinges on this not being a possible incidental property.


1-5 create a vicious circle for defining piety, because we are now saying that something is pious because the gods love it because of something else. But that something else would then be piety.

When I compare this with what you write as P, Q, and R, I think you're getting caught up on the wrong things.  

P merely emphasizes that it is some feature in the judgment of the one that loves which renders an object loved rather than a feature that objects have without subjects that love them. It matters because the direction of how love works is key for Plato's argument.

Q is precisely the circular problem that 1-5 identifies.

R is the non-triviality that arises from P behind the claims in 1-5. In other words, god-lovedness is not on Plato's account a magical property of objects oractions but a consequence of something that is true about the object or action as it would be reflected in the judgment of all the gods.

Q is vital because it shows what is wrong with Euthyphro's definition when viewed in conjunction with the claims Euthyphro accepts about how love functions (being a property that attaches to objects secondarily and requires the active use of the subject's minds).



You may also want to look at the answer I supplied here: https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/15796/is-there-an-advantage-of-a-theistic-account-in-terms-of-being-able-to-define-goo/15800#15800 Is there an advantage of a theistic account in terms of being able to define goodness?
The distinction between formal and objective reality in Descartes is elucidated on http://www.trinity.edu/cbrown/modern/descartes-Reality.html Brown's web page. Formal reality refers to the reality of an object by virtue of the kind of thing it is (infinite, finite, modes/thoughts). Descartes view of formal reality is encapsulated in this http://www.sparknotes.com/philosophy/meditations/section6.rhtml online commentary: 
"When Descartes speaks of things as having more or less reality than other things, we can understand him as roughly dividing up reality along a scale where infinite substances (i.e., God) have the most reality, followed by finite substances, followed by modes. As we mentioned earlier, finite substances are bodies and minds, while modes are modifications of body and mind, like color, shape, size, imagination, idea, will, etc..."
Objective reality, pertaining only to representations (which have a low formal reality, being modes), refers to the formal reality of the object of the idea/representation if the idea existed. For instance, the idea of God has a low formal reality but a high objective reality.

Now, Descartes's argument relies on two notions, elucidated in the first page of http://www.jstor.org/stable/40231633?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents Sinkler's paper in the Canadian Journal of Philosophy. First, the objective reality of an idea must originate from a cause with at least as much formal reality. The second,  is that only a being possessing the qualities of God could produce the idea of God (this coming from the fact that the idea God has the highest level of objective reality, which can only correlate to a being with infinite formal reality, i.e. God). That the ultimate cause must be at least as "perfect" as its effects is another scholastic presupposition, as explained in the aforementioned commentary: "According to Descartes, something with a certain degree of objective reality must ultimately be caused by something with that degree of formal reality... If we trace the causal chain far enough back, we will find a cause with as much formal reality as the idea has objective reality. If the Meditator can locate an idea that has more objective reality than he has formal reality, he can conclude that there must exist something outside of himself which had to create the idea". 

Descartes's argument is really a version of the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/cosmological-argument/#3 "cosmological argument", as mentioned in the article from the philosophy Journal. He adopts ideas with scholastic origins which would have been understood at the time. To the logical flaws of the cosmological argument (which is now considered invalid). Descartes adds some problematic reasoning of his own, the so-called http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/descartes-epistemology/#6 Cartesian Circle:"Descartes first argues from clearly and distinctly perceived premises to the conclusion that an all-perfect God exists; he then argues from the premise that an all-perfect God exists to the conclusion that whatever is clearly and distinctly perceived is true".
Your analysis seems to me quite correct. The talk about the "analogical" predication of being may hint at the analogies among the four distinct modes of being that are distinguished in Aristotle's Metaphysics: essential being, accidental being, potential being, and being-true (logical being).

It is probably worth pointing out that "being is not a genus" was already part of Aristotle's doctrine, and not an innovation of Aquinas'.


  Now one of the conclusions we reached on substance and being was that none of the universals can be a substance. And, presumably, being cannot itself be a substance as a single thing set apart from the many – it must surely be something common to them, must therefore be no more than something that is predicated of them . . . unity cannot be a genus, and for the same reasons that being . . . cannot be either.
  (Metaphysics Iota 2)


Aquinas upheld Aristotle's doctrine that being is not a genus; even though Aquinas' concept of being was somewhat "thicker" than that of Aristotle's. Aristotle held that individuals are composed of matter and form. Some later Aristotelian philosophers, Aquinas among them, came to hold that apart from form and matter, an individual is constituted by a distinct "act of being", and that it was that act of being which held the matter and form together. This made Aquinas' concept of being more substantial than that of Aristotle's. Still, being was still held as not a genus.
Plato's and Aristotle's views on politics were very different. Aristotle rejected many of the building blocks of Plato's politics: the theory of Forms (in the Metaphysics), the universal idea of the Good (in the Ethics), the value of Communes (in the Politics).

Further, unlike Plato, Aristotle distinguished "theoretical" philosophy (physics, metaphysics) from "practical" philosophy (ethics, politics). Aristotle agreed with Plato that theoretical philosophy was part of the highest (and potentially happiest) form of human life. But unlike Plato, Aristotle held that theoretical philosophy had no practical value. He even saw its impracticality as a sign of its value: theoretical philosophy has no goal outside of itself. Accordingly, theoretical philosophy played almost no part in Aristotle's ethics and in his politics.


  It is plain then that Science [= theoretical philosophy] is the union of Knowledge and Intuition, and has for its objects those things which are most precious in their nature. Accordingly, Anexagoras, Thales, and men of that stamp [= theoretical philosophers], people call Scientific, but not Practically Wise because they see them ignorant of what concerns themselves; and they say that what they know is quite out of the common run certainly, and wonderful, and hard, and very fine no doubt, but still useless because they do not seek after what is good for them as men. (Ethics Book VI)


Aristotle argued against regimes ruled by a small (minority) class, on the ground that such a regime cannot remain stable for long. Aristotle advocated a broad ruling class (the middle class) and a wide participation of citizens in the management of the state.

One factor that Aristotle preserved, as it were, from Plato's politics was the importance of public education. The corriculum of Aristotle's public education system included some forms of gymnastics and of music. Aristotle also suggeted that future rulers and legislators will study ethics and political theory, similar to his own. But he did not relate studies like higher mathematics or theoretical philosophy to the management of the state, as did Plato.

Another political aspect which seems to have been common to Plato and to Aristotle, was that they both viewed the desired state as outwardly peaceful, utilizing military force only for defense, and avoiding the occupation of other states.
I guess I would go with at testing procedure -- consistency with a stated or implied theory.

Necessity is a modality -- the collection of 'must' statements, construed as rigidly as possible.  

Instead of Kripke's semantics, consider an older (and better) way of looking at modals.

Modal assertions are incomplete statements that gain meaning only when an appropriate context is affixed.  So necessity is dictated by what part of your reality is considered accidental, and what part is considered 'the context in which you are operating'.

A necessity statement gains meaning only when a global theory is attached.
At that point the consequences of the theory are necessary, anything that does not violate it is possible, and everything else is just true or false.

This style of modal reasoning is most obvious in the modality of obligation.  Every 'should' statement only has implications when an ethics is attached.  By the ethics of Aristotle we should not kill our parents.  By the ethics of Manson we probably should.

A similar relativism applies to 'essence'.  Pick your paradigm, and its basic terms dictate what is essential.  For biology, acidity is an accident; for basic chemistry it may be essential; for physics, it is emergent.



To the motivating statement by Kripke, any modern mathematician must consider it childish.

There is no 'essentially essential', there is always an equivalence relation: a definition of 'essential' which eliminates all other details and establishes the context in which one is working.  In a broader context, the things we consider different are really the same, in a narrower context, we can look inside our equivalence classes and study the structure of the isomorphisms hiding information from us.
You ask a series of questions, sometimes expressed separately and other times embedded in your theses. I pick up some questions which I can isolate:


How does Newton's concept of absolute time change in SR? Answer: Absolute time is abolished, there is no absolute time in SR. The main reason is the contradictory concept of global simultaneoussness. In GR Einstein also votes against an entity which influences other entities, but does not experience itself any impact from other entities: Not only does spacetime prescribe via geodesics the trajectories of material objects. Spacetime itself is curved by the mass distribution.
How does Newton's concept of relative time change in SR? Answer: One can substitute  the proper time along a trajectory for Newton's concept of relative time.
Is it correct that all inertial frames everywhere and at all times are the same? Answer: They are not the same, but Lorentz transformation transforms between the coordinates of different inertial frames. At most one can say: All inertial frames are equivalent concerning the description of nature. But note that GR extends the concept of frame transformation and allows also non-inertial frames. 

It is a great question, and the subject of current debate among metaphysicians. 

Proponents of sparse properties deny that there is a property (i.e. a real metaphysical constituent of an object) named by every predicate of language. So sparse property theorists are going to say that things like "negative properties"  (e.g. "being non-Socrates") or "disjunctive properties" (e.g. "being a bat or not") are not genuine properties at all. 

Proponents of abundant properties, on the other hand, would deny this and claim that there must be some feature of, e.g. the cup on my desk, that makes the sentence "The cup is either a bat or not" true, and that thing is the property of being either a bat or not. 

The debate is, in some sense semantic. It is about what it features in reality are required to make the sentence "the cup is either a bat or not" true.
Descartes seems to invoke the following four arguments, when he aims, in The Principles of Philosophy part II, to justify the conservation of the "amount of motion" during collisions:


Motion must be conserved, because it is "simple". And simple things are destructible only by an external cause.



  Anything that is not composite but simple, as motion is, always stays in existence and in the same intrinsic state as long as it isn’t destroyed ·or altered· by an external cause. (Principles II 41)



Since motion must be conserved, and since the direction of movement is not always conserved, after a collision, it must be the amount of motion which is conserved.



  [The conservation of motion] is proved by the fact that there is a difference between how much a thing is moving and •in which particular direction it is moving; because the direction can be altered while the motion remains constant. (ibid)



Conserving motion is part of God's preserving the world (which may indicate that the world would not exist if motion were not conserved).



  [The conservation of motion] is proved from the unchangingness of God’s ways of operating, •keeping the world in existence by the very same kind of· action through which he •brought it into existence in the ﬁrst place. (Principles II 42)



Since the amount of motion must be preserved, and since this amount is not always preserved for individual bodies, it remains that the sum of the motions of the individual bodies is the preserved amount. And when bodies collide, some amount is transferred from one body to another.



  Thus, since God preserves the world by the same ·kind of· action and in accordance with the same laws as when he created it, the motion that he preserves is not permanently ﬁxed in each piece of matter but transferred from one piece to another when collisions occur. (ibid)

I dont think so. Plato almost certainly wasn't thinking like an OOP.

Forms themselves don't exist physically. They are abstract, and not in the weak sense that they are merely fuzzy, or not fully defined, Forms are abstract in the strong sense in that they are conceptually pure, irreducible, and non-material. a form cannot have multiple attributes, since, at least in some sense, forms are attributes.

part of the description Plato gives of the form of beauty is that it is:


  but itself by itself with itself [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_Forms#Intelligible_realm_and_separation_of_the_Forms 1]


he later says that a form neither receives into itself anything else from anywhere else, nor itself enters into anything anywhere. Think of it like prime factoring a number; 27 becomes 3*3*3, 3*9 equals 27 as well, but as 9 is reducible to 3*3, we can say that 9 receives into itself 3*3. On the other hand, 3 or indeed any prime number, only remains a form while it is not functioning in any way (such as in 3*3 or even just as the symbol 3), since forms also do not enter into anything anywhere. 

So in the case of the example you give, there can't exist a form such as 'circular tableness' because it lacks the quality of being irreducible. I'd argue that 'circular tableness' is actually a concept, not a form, and that it is itself an instance of the forms circle and table.

further, I don't think there is such a thing as the form of a form, firstly just on an historical basis, plato is one of the most widely known philosophers in the history of the world, so we can assume he was a fairly accomplished logician, I cant imagine he would have been blind to such an obvious infinite regression (form, form of a form, form of a form of a form, etc) so I think its more likely that on Plato's view its not the case that forms express various qualities like tableness and blueness, rather there are things that are tableness and blueness, which plato calls forms because they are irreducible (where 'being irreducible' is not a property possessed by the form, but a description that applies to it.)  
From Jan von Plato, https://books.google.it/books?id=8RUOAwAAQBAJ&pg=PA10 Elements of Logical Reasoning (Cambridge UP, 2013), pag 10 :


  The two sentences "if A, then B" and "B if A" seem to express the same thing. Natural language seems to have a host of ways of expressing a conditional sentence that is written A → B in the logical notation. Consider the following list :
  
  From A, B follows; A is a sufficient condition for B; A entails B; A implies B; B provided that A; B is a necessary condition for A; A only if B. 
  
  The last two require some thought. The equivalence of A and B, A ↔ B in logical notation, can be read as A if and only if B, also A is a necessary and sufficient condition for B. Sufficiency of a condition as well as the 'if' direction being clear, the remaining direction is the opposite one. So A only if B means A → B and so does B is a necessary condition for A.
  
  It sound a bit strange to say that B is a necessary condition for A means A → B. When one thinks of conditions as in A → B, usually A would be a cause of B in some sense or other, and causes must precede their effects. A necessary condition is instead something that necessary follows, therefore not a condition in the causal sense.

The instance in your question is not the fallacy of equivocation.

It is equivocation on the linguistic level, but it is not the fallacy, because a fallacy is an error in argumentation. Moreover, in the case of informal fallacies, these are generally judgment calls with respect to their applicability (it's generally not an appeal to authority to trust a doctor's diagnosis).

In this case, no argument is being made -- hence no fallacy. To give several equivalents, you can't strike out if you aren't playing baseball/softball. You can't miss your high jump if you're not even in the high jump. You can't has misspoken in French when speaking English.

Now, that's not to say there is not equivocation -- the use of the same words with different meanings in the two sentences, just that this doesn't make it a fallacy.
The "basic" mathematical logic axioms for identity are :


  x = x (reflexivity)
  
  x = y → y = x (symmetry)
  
  x= y ∧ y = z → x = z (transitivity).




Thus, from a = b we can derive b = a by simmetry, and from a=b and a=c, we derive c=a from the second one by symmetry and then, from c=a and a=b, we derive c=b by transitivity, followed by b=c by symmetry again.
Carlo Rovelli wrote a defence of Aristotle's physics which deserves to be read: http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4057 http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.4057
An idea which is perhaps worth reconsidering is formulated found in De Caelo (305a26): what does not move is merely mathematical and does not exist. Contemporary physics has became almost entirely mathematical and tends to obliterate the divide between mathematics and physics. The 19th c. conceded that absence of obvious contradiction is  enough to legitimate a mathematical inquiry; for physics some evidence was mandatory. Today physicists tend to promote purely mathematical constructs as physics - they are cheap and mostly unfalsifiable. But they are offered only on the strength on non-contradiction. Indeed there is an attempt to reverse philosophical perspective by inverting the role of modality and existence - physics pretends to a god's like view in which the actual world is merely one among the possible ones. Possibility is a modality which, as Aristotle knew, escapes the non-contradictoriness manifested by reality.
One English edition is Smith, Trey; Paul, Alex: Around the Tao in 80 Days. 2009. The title alludes to the famous book of Jules Verne and also to the 81(!) Chapters of the Dao De Jing. 

The book authored by Smith and Paul is a nice translation and introduction. It stays on a middle path between the trivial on one hand and excessive pensiveness on the other. 

Chapter 11 is entitled by the editors 

Much Ado About Nothing:


  We join spokes together in a wheel,
  but is the center hole
  that makes the wagon move.
  
  We shape clay into a pot,
  but it is the emptiness inside
  that holds whatever we want.
  
  We hammer wood for a house,
  but is the inner space
  that makes it livable.
  
  We work with being,
  but non-being is what we use.


Translation due to Stephen Mitchell.

Putting in parallel the verses of your post one recognizes three well known, concrete examples illustrating the general, but abstract claim in the end.

Concerning the interpretation of the abstract claim the editors quote the following interpretation of Marc Watts:

The strategic advantage of recognizing the value of space is not only practical, however, because the bowl, representing space, is also a metaphor for the vessel of consciousness, and what is true of a ceramic bowl is also true of the mind - it works best when empty.
Some initial suggestions :


Allan Bäck, https://books.google.it/books?id=LbG1v0RAtRwC&pg=PA44 Aristotle's Theory of Predication (2000), page 44-48 on self-predication,


and :


Simo Knuuttila & Jaakko Hintikka (editors), https://books.google.it/books?id=9fjwCAAAQBAJ&pg=PR7 THE LOGIC OF BEING : Historical Studies (1986), at least : BENSON MATES, Identity and Predication in Plato, page 29-on, and JAAKKO HINTIKKA, The Varieties of Being in Aristotle, page 81-on.


For Arsitotle's theory of substance and predication, see http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/aristotle-categories/ Aristotle's Categories :


  given the above interpretation of the said-of and present-in relation, a primary substance is a particular that is non-accidental.


Thus, according to this interpretation, Socrates (the individual) is a substance.


  Aristotle's categorialism is firmly anti-Platonic. Whereas Plato treated the abstract as more real than material particulars, in the Categories Aristotle takes material particulars as ontological bedrock — to the extent that being a primary substance makes something more real than anything else, entities such as Socrates and a horse are the most real entities in Aristotle's worldview [emphasis added].


Due to the Platonic background of many of A's thesis, see Mates' study, page 29 :


  In recent times this situation has been analyzed on the basis of the assumption that the verb "to be" has at least two senses, viz., the predicative sense, as in "Socrates is human", and the identity sense, as in "Socrates is the husband of Xanthippe". Plato's critics castigate him for being unaware of the distinction, while his defenders believe that he was perfectly well aware of it and that the allegedly self-predicative statements are to be understood as assertions of identity. 


And see Hintikka :


  Almost all twentieth-century philosophers in English-speaking countries have
  followed Frege and Russell and claimed that the words for being in natural languages - "is", "ist", etc. - are ambiguous between the is of predication, the is of existence, the is of identity, and the generic is.


For Aristotle discussion of "sameness", see http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/topics.1.i.html Topics, Book I: 103a32, and see Beck [page 182] :


  So he admits self-predication, in the sense of having the expressions contained in the subject and the predicate signify the same item in a category. [...] Aristotle says that in cases of sameness in number we uses two appellations of the same thing.


and Beck, [page 184] :


  The aspect theory can handle identity claims: 'Socrates is Socrates' becomes
  'Socrates exists as (identical to) Socrates'; 'this man is Socrates'
  becomes 'this man exists as (the same as) Socrates'. Such statements are
  harmless but not too informative. We can see why Aristotle would not
  think that the identity relation has central importance in predication. [...] Aristotle allows predication at best only of expressions signifying singulars in accidental categories (taken abstractly). He does not seem to allow the predication of singulars in the category of substance. Still his remarks on numerical sameness to offer a way of analyzing such singular statements as 'the one drinking hemlock is Socrates' without predicating a singular term: not 'is Socrates'; rather take the predicate as either 'the same as Socrates' or, better, 'being Socrates' (sc., 'the essence of Socrates' — suggested by the predicative position).


For A, strictly speaking, a singular term (the name of an individual) cannot be predicated:


  Of all the things which exist some are such that they cannot be predicated of 
  anything else truly and universally, e.g. Cleon and Callias, i.e. the individual
  and sensible, but other things may be predicated of them (for each of these is
  both man and animal).[An.Pr., Book I, 43a32-3]

The general place to look for etymological resources

One great resource is the http://www.oed.com Oxford English Dictionary, which is the most complete dictionary of the English language. The entries are all historically sourced, and one can observe the development of words over time that way. 

Another useful resource to get older meanings of contemporary English words is Samuel Johnson's http://johnsonsdictionaryonline.com Dictionary, which was the first dictionary of English, compiled in the 18th century. 

Specifically regarding the terms for the square of opposition

Every proposition in Aristotelian logic has a quantity and a quality. The quantities are affirmative and negative and the qualities are universal and particular. 


Universal Affirmative (A): "All trees are plants."
Particular Affirmative (I): "Some tree is a plant."
Universal Negative (E): "No dog is a plant."
Particular Negative (O): "Some dogs are non-plans."


The letter names, A, E, I, O, are a mnemonic to help Latin-speaking school boys remember which kind of proposition is which. (The letters are taken from affirmo and nego, which mean "I affirm" and "I deny" respectively.)

Picture the propositions arranged as a square: 

A  -  E

|  / \  |

I   ?  O

Aristotelian logic is about the relationships among these four different kinds of propositions. 

Here's one such rule. Subalternation: If you know a universal proposition (A or E) is true, then you also know that the proposition below it on the chart is true. So if "All trees are plants" is true, then it is also true that "Some tree is a plant." (Note, this is the biggest difference between Aristotle and modern logic. Modern logicians don't like that inference.) The rule is so-named, because you are inferring the one proposition from 'the other' (Latin "alter") and because the particular propositions are literally below (L. "sub") the universal propositions on the chart.

The name "subcontraries" is similar. A propositions and E propositions are contraries in that relation has logical implications. So the propositions below those propositions should be related too, and we should investigate the properties of that relation. So the medieval logicians just called that relationship subcontrariety because it was the version of contrariety for the propositions below.
I don't think the word "implies" would be a good substitute for "presupposes" here. Presuppose and imply put the arrow in somewhat opposite directions.

It's quite a mouthful to say:


  Kant does not suggest that the possibility of conditional value presupposes the existence of something of unconditional value.


This translates to :

   For Kant 
     It is not the case that 
        possibility of conditional value 
            presupposes
              existence of something of unconditional value


We can strip out the top two bits for now.

In Kant (and many other contexts in philosophy), X presupposes Y = Y is a condition for the possibility of X.  Or to put it another X is not possible without Y. This doesn't translate to Y at least under normal circumstances.

The arrow should point ← left for presupposes (  not → ). Implies points the arrow right (→). It's sloppy to get that backwards though comprehensible. I.e., the existence of unconditional value is a condition for the possibility of conditioned value. (but again, remember, that's not the position Kant takes).

Or to put it another way, he's not saying Kant's argument is not:


Conditional value is possible.
Ergo, unconditional must exist.
(This is what your "implies" would mean -- but not what Guyer is saying Kant is not saying).


Guyer is saying Kant's position is not:


Unconditional value exists
Ergo, conditional value exist


Instead,


  rather, he assumes that morality requires the existence of something of unconditional value, and infers from this that conditional or relative value cannot be the whole story about value.


So then Kant's position is:


Morality exists.
Morality requires unconditional value.
Ergo unconditioned value exists


Also true:


conditioned values exist (hypothetical syllogism either for practical use or for happiness) 

The answer already given by user3451767 is not in my view correct. Logical atomism characterizes Russell's work from roughly 1910-1925. POM was published in 1903. There are many differences between his views during these periods.

The short answer to your question:

Russell's terminology is confusing because he has two uses of the word "term" in POM: 

-A term "ontologically" speaking is anything that can be a subject of a proposition. So the concept /human/ is really a term because it can occur as a subject in a proposition (e.g. /humanity characterizes Socrates/). 

-But Russell also speaks about terms of the proposition, and by this he means the way a term occurs in a proposition. So in the proposition /humanity characterizes Socrates/ the term /humanity/ occurs as the term of the proposition, and /characterizes/ occurs as the relating relation. But in the proposition /Socrates is human/ the term /humanity/ does not occur as a term of the proposition, but as the relation of the proposition. 

Nicholas Griffin (1980 pp.120-122) suggests that because this ambiguous terminology is misleading terms of the proposition (in contrast to terms tout court) should be simply called the subjects of the proposition.

So there is no contradiction between your examples: In the first example Russell is using the word "term" in the first sense, and in the second example he is using it in the second sense (terms as subjects of the proposition in question).



The longer explanation: 

In the period when POM was written Russell had a very simplistic view about language (and thought), according to which almost every word in a sentence has a meaning and what it means is a term (CCBR p.20). So in a sense his ontology derives from this kind of simple view of semantics, but really he was not interested in language here:


  Whatever may be an object of thought, or may occur in any true or
  false proposition, or can be counted as one, I call a term. This,
  then, is the widest word in the philosophical vocabulary.[...] A man,
  a moment, a number, a class, a relation, a chimera, or anything else
  that can be mentioned, is sure to be a term; and to deny that such and
  such a thing is a term must always be false. (POM p.43)


Terms and propositions are neither linguistic nor psychological, but objective constituents of the world. Anything that can be counted as one or made the subject of a proposition is a term. (CCBR p.20 & p.115)
Russell also has a habit of using words like "verb", "adjective" and even "variable" in a non-linguistic sense, as referring to constituents of the non-linguistic propositions.(Griffin 1980, n4)

In short his theory of propositions is the following (Griffin 1980, p.119):
All terms have being (Zeus), in some cases they have existence (the moon).
Terms are divided into things and concepts. So concepts are also terms, but concepts have the ability to occur in propositions as the relation of a proposition, and not only as one of the subjects of a proposition. 
And when terms (things or concepts) combine with concepts they form new complex terms, these are propositions. (So propositions are also terms!) 
Propositions are either true or false, and these are unanalyzable properties of propositions (so for example truth is not based on a correspondence relation for Russell in POM). 

So for Russell in POM both

(1) /Plato admires Socrates/

(2) /Admires admires Socrates/

are proposition (sometimes in the literature slashes are used instead of quotation marks to emphasize that propositions here are not linguistic entities). (1) is true, and (2) is false (so he does not impose type restrictions). (Griffin 1980: 121) 

What does it mean to say that concepts but not things have the ability to occur as a relation in a proposition? 
A relation is what gives the proposition its unity according to Russell. But how exactly and what this unity consists of Russell was never able to specify (this is the so called problem of the unity of propositions). (CCBR: pp.116-117)

This partly Meinongian theory is very strange, no doubt. But its purpose is clear: Russell needed a theory of propositions for his logic, since logic was for him (in POM) the science of propositions.

Now to your first question: give examples of things that are not terms. According to Griffin (1980, p. 119) when things are combined with other things the result is not a term but an object, objects (unlike terms) need not be unities. Examples of such objects are for Russell classes-as-many and the denotations of quantifiers (in POM Russell accepted the theory of the so called denoting concepts). 

Notice that Russell also called terms objects, so apparently object is a more encompassing category. At §58 n1 (POM) he finds this problematic:


  I shall use the word object in a wider sense than term, to cover both
  singular and plural, and also cases of ambiguity, such as "a man." The
  fact that a word can be framed with a wider meaning than term raises
  grave logical problems.


Russell returns to this issue at §348 (p.366).

Griffin, Nicholas (1980). Russell on the nature of logic (1903–1913). Synthese 45 (1):117-188.

CCBR: The Cambridge Companion to Bertrand Russell
I'm sure you already understand the first part of what I am going to say, but for the sake of clarity I shall say it anyway.

In classical logic, a conditional statement, A ⇒ B, is only false if it is possible for A to be true and B to be false.

The first method of proof described (p.437) works by assuming that A is true and showing that this means that B must be true.  We can then conclude that A ⇒ B.

The second method of proof described (p.446), usually called the contrapositive, works by assuming that B is false, then showing this would mean that A cannot be true.  We can then conclude A ⇒ B.

These two methods of proof are logically/formally equivalent.



Having said all of that, your confusion is the result of the use of the name "conditional statement" in the description of the first method of proof (p.437), while in the description of the second method of proof (p.446) the author draws attention to
♦ the fact that B can be any well-formed statement, conditional or otherwise. ♦
 The same  (ie: the noun phrase above surrounded by ♦) is true in the first method of proof, although the author does not make this point in his description.

So I would say that you need to keep in mind that in either case, A and B can be any well-formed statements, conditional or otherwise.  With this in mind, the logical equivalence of the two methods should be clear.

For example, if A is the conditional statement (C ⇒ D) and B is the conditional statement (E ⇒ F), then both methods of proof apply and are equivalent.
"Cars have almost disappeared" means "quite all (the members of the class of cars) have disappeard" while "all" means "all".

Thus, to say that "[The class of] cars have almost disappeared" means that only few of them (the cars) are still running.

"[All] cars have almost disappeared" instead, makes little sense, because it seems to mean that every single car is a sort of "phantom".



A similar example is with:


  "There are 67 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moons_of_Jupiter Moons of Jupiter";


if we agree, for the sake of discussion, that numbers are predicated of concepts, the above statement means that the number 67 is a sort of property of the concept "Moon of Jupiter", i.e. the class of Moons of Jupiter has 67 members.

This does not mean that each (individual) Moon of Jupiter is 67...

You cannot distribute (or "divide") the property "to be 67" from the collection of Moons to the individual moons belonging to the collection.
The terms essential and existential ontology can at best be only applied to Sartre/sartrian existentialism, but not Heidegger. 

Sartrian existentialism 

Sartrian existentialism says traditional philosophy is primarily preoccupied with essences (think of Plato's ideas, Aristoteles' eidos/morphe, Medieval essentia, Kant's Vorstellung, Hegel's Begriff) and where the existence is merely derived from the essence (to ti esti, participation, haecceitas, Verwirklichung). However, philosophy should primarily preoccupied with (human) existence. So metaphysics can be considered an ontology of essence and existentialism an ontology of existence.

Heidegger

Heidegger in Being and Time states he wants step away from ontology and consider a fundamental ontology (Fundamentalontologie). This fundamental ontology is conceived as a precursor to ontology and deals, not with essence and existence, but with the meaning/significance (Sinn) of to be (Sein) which is fundamental to our understanding of terms like essence and existence. The investigation into human existence (Dasein) is a preparation (!) for asking this question into Being. 

His tought is: certain beings exist in different ways, e.g. the existence of a stone versus the existence of a human, and should be described in different ways (key term: Seinsweise). His thesis is that the traditional concepts of essence and existence are primarily derived from our gaze upon present things and tools. For example, based on this, we have Aristoteles 10 categories. However, if we start with human existence, not those 10 categories are the most important, but understanding, receptivity to moods, language. To mark the difference, he doesn't call these categories, but 'existentials'. These existentials allow that we can think and talk of the existence of something, which a stone or an animal cannot.

Heidegger against existentialism 

When existentialism became popular, Heidegger distanced himself from it, because from him the existentialist concept of 'existence' is still derived to the metaphysical concept of the essence of present things, and only the order is reversed. 


  Sartre's key proposition about the priority of existentia over
  essentia [Sartre's statement "existence precedes
  essence"] does, however, justify using the name "existentialism" as an
  appropriate title for a philosophy of this sort. But the basic tenet
  of "existentialism" has nothing at all in common with the statement
  from Being and Time [that "the 'essence' of Dasein lies in its
  existence"] — apart from the fact that in Being and Time no statement
  about the relation of essentia and existentia can yet be expressed,
  since there it is still a question of preparing something
  precursory. (Heidegger, Letter on Humanism)


So 'existential ontology' is not applicable to his thought, as he focuses on the question of Being itself, which supposedly precedes ontology and our concept of existence.
There are a few things to note here: You are trying to argue with a person who has rejected empirical data or at least the one you presented. That means either you would have to present new empirical data that the person would accept or you have to look for some kind of shared fundamental premise and go from there. Since you don't have a lifetime to discuss with just this one person, you should try to go for the former.

The first thing you could try is find a peer-reviewed paper in a respected journal that supports your claim (if such a paper exists and if it doesn't, you really shouldn't be making that claim anyways).

My personal anecdotal experience is, that even when you do present such a paper, people who started out with a conspiratory excuse for the first argument will be very unlikely to accept any other empirical source of information. They are cherry-picking their skepticism in such a way that it creates unrealistic goals for the opponent but none for themselves. In such situations it is generally better to not argue with the person. A person who has essentially pre-defined evidence for your position as impossible disqualifies themselves from intellectual discourse.

"It seems like an unfalsifiable assertion"

That's because it is. Ask him/her if he/she has any evidence to support that all of these studies are fabricated or biased and then list a number of independant and if possible peer-reviewed papers.

A last tip that sometimes works: Use an argument analogous to hers and use it to argue for something he/she disagrees with or is evidently factual. That demonstrates that something is wrong with the FORM of her argument.
Aristotle illustrates in this passage from Metaphysics, book VII (1033a24ff)  his theory of four causes:  


"by the action of something" = causa efficiens
"out of something" = causa materialis
"becomes something" = causa formalis


The fourth cause, causa finalis, is not considered. In the passage


  For to make a this is to make a this out of the whole of what underlies it.


the term "what underlies it" denotes the causa materialis: upokeimenon = the substrate.

The theory of four causes has been introduced in book I, chapter 3-7. Here Aristotle also reviews Plato's teaching.
You cannot determine a property of something which does not exist. Properties need a subject whose properties they are.


  But what if we calculate the area for a triangle with hypotenuse of length 4 and the altitude of the hypotenuse of length 3?


You cannot do this because such triangle does not exist. Your sentence is contradictory because already the concept of a triangle with hypotenuse of length 4 and the altitude of the hypotenuse of length 3 is a contradictory concept.

When forming concepts the first rule is to assure that they are not contradictory. Otherwise the concept is without meaning.
The actuality operator is usually not interpreted as a quantifier, it indicates that what follows belongs to the privileged word, the actual world. The existential quantifier, on the other hand, quantifies, and over things in whatever possible world. So ☐(∃x Px) for example says that there exist objects with property P in every possible world, i.e. they exist necessarily. In some theories ∃x is even  used unrestrictedly, i.e. quantifies over all possible worlds, as in http://www.ulrichmeyer.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/Counterparts_Actuality.pdf Lewis's counterpart theory. Then one can combine the two as in ∃x Ax, which says that the actual world has things. In some non-modal theories there is a similar distinction between the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/actualism/ existence predicate and the existential quantifier, when people (Meinongians) want to quantify over non-existent things but without committing themselves to their existence. So ∃x(¬Ex) says that some things do not exists like ∃x(¬Ax) says that some things are not actual.

However, http://projecteuclid.org/euclid.ndjfl/1093635586 Hazen in Actuality and Quantification does introduce actuality quantifiers:"Ordinary, world-restricted,  quantifiers  are interpreted  as ranging over  existents; their logic is formalized  by putting
 existence premisses/hypotheses  into the familiar  rules. Actuality  quantifiers  are interpreted as ranging  over  things that actually exist
 (actual existents)". This is to satisfy http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/actualism/ actualists, who would only allow quantification over actual objects, not modal abstractions.
See Frank Plumpton Ramsey, https://books.google.it/books?id=1st-3kYOEPQC&printsec=frontcover The Foundations of mathematics (1931), page 274:


  A propositional sign is a sentence ; but this statement must be qualified, for by 'sentence' may be meant something of the same nature as the words of which it is composed. But a propositional sign differs essentially from a word because it is not an object or class of objects, but a fact, "the fact that its elements, the words, are combined in it in a definite way " (3.14). Thus 'propositional sign' has http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/types-tokens/ type-token ambiguity ; the tokens (like those of any sign) are grouped into types by physical similarity (and by conventions associating certain noises with certain shapes) just as are the instances of a word. But a proposition is a type whose instances consist of all propositional sign tokens which have in common, 
  not a certain appearance, but a certain sense. 


Consider this example:


  "Napoleon is the Emperor of France"


and


  "Napoleon is the Emperor of France";


they are two different tokens of the same type, because they are "individuals" differing by font (as well as for spatial coordinates), like two different utterances of the same sentence.

They are instance" of the same propositional sign, which is a linguistic object.

The sentence:


  "The Emperor of France is Napoleon"


is a different type of sentence, i.e. a different propositional sign.

Of course, all them have the same meaning, i.e. they express the same thought or content: they are related to the same fact of the world.

This fact (regarding Napoleon and France) is the proposition, which is not a linguistic object.
TL;DR

Good and evil are in their very core moral concepts and dichotomous for Kant, although there are texts where there seem to be things that may be in some respects called good, but can become evil. Therefore, I do not think that he can be taken to fit the picture Levinas is thinking of.

On moral good and evil

While in the moral sphere there is good and evil, the good is absolute as well as the evil is radical, so that they are dichotomous and reason is forced into dialectics, because both (the moral law and the pursuit of eudaimonia/felicity) are part of the human nature. This idea of twofold human nature is fully developed in Religion Within the Bounds of Reason Alone.

BUT the overall picture is pretty consistent over time, see  e.g. 4:405 for the Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals (1785), 5:47 for the Critique of Practical Reason (1788) as well as explicitely 6:37 for the Religion Within the Bounds of Reason Alone (1793) (and in general: book 1, chapter 3). I will quote from the last text, because it is most explicit about it:


  Now if a propensity to this does lie in human nature, there is in man a natural propensity to evil; and since this very propensity must in the end be sought in a will which is free, and can therefore be imputed, it is morally evil. This evil is radical, because it corrupts the ground of all maxims; it is, moreover, as a natural propensity, inextirpable by human powers, since extirpation could occur only through good maxims, and cannot take place when the ultimate subjective ground of all maxims is postulated as corrupt; yet at the same time it must be possible to overcome it, since it is found in man, a being whose actions are free.


That means that if the terms of good and evil are taken morally, they are mere opposites.

On 'good' that can be evil

Kant has some accounts of "good" that may be used for evil deeds e.g. in the first part of the Groundwork that may be taken as making a venn diagram possible, but this "good", has to be understood in the sense of "good as means", i.e. in an instrumental sense, therefore he has to say:


  Moderation in affects and passions,
   self-control, and sober
  reflection not only are good for many aims, but seem even to constitute a
  part of the inner worth of a person; yet they lack much in order to be declared good without limitation (however unconditionally they were praised
  by the ancients).
   For without the principles of a good will they can become
  extremely evil, and the cold-bloodedness of a villain makes him not only far
  more dangerous but also immediately more abominable in our eyes than he
  would have been held without it. (4:394)


Therefore they do not have any 'inner good', but are seen as good only because they may correlate with a good will, and usually do. That means the 'good' is only derivative here.
No.

Sentential logic (and also first order predicate logic) with natural deduction is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundness sound and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Completeness_(logic)#Semantic_completeness complete. That means that any valid argument can be proved using natural deduction, and that anything that is proved using natural deduction is valid.

That makes natural deduction equivalent to truth tables in sentential logic in the sense that showing that an argument is valid using a truth table implies that it is provable using natural deduction, and showing that it is provable in natural deduction implies that its truth table would show it to be valid.



If step 5 in your deduction was ~Q, the proof would not work. The crucial move in that deduction is 8, which deduces Q from Q->Q, P->Q, PvQ. If 5 had ~Q instead, that would not work, since that would get you P->~Q instead of P->Q.

6 and 7 are needed because Q->Q is needed (for disjunction elimination in 8), and there's no other way to get it (that is, Q->Q must be proved, even if it seems trivial).
Did Heraclitus believe in the identity of opposites? I do not think so. He is popularly quoted as having said,


  No man ever steps in the same river twice.


But what he actually said is quite different,


  We both step and do not step in the same rivers. We are and are not.


This points to a very different point of view; it is not the case that opposites are identical, but that opposites coincide. This isn't contradictory with the law of identity, which is also often misstated as:


  Nothing can both be and not be.


Of course, if that misapprehension was true, nobody would ever die, for if so, somebody would be alive, and then not be alive. But the actual text is,


  one cannot say of something that it is and that it is not in the same relation and at the same time.


So, yes, we can enter the same river - in the relation in which the river is the same, regardless of what individual atoms compose it - and never enter the same river - in the relation in which the individual atoms of the "same" river never flow through in the same order and position, if ever.

If so, the opposites


We often step into the same river.


and


We never step into the same river.


are both true, but they are not identical: they are true concerning different relations. "River" means different things in each sentence, different meanings that are fused in most ordinary uses of the word.
Yes, they are correct. Well done :)
Hint

For ¬P ∨ Q ⊢ P → Q :

1) ¬P ∨ Q --- premise : apply https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disjunction_elimination Disjunction Elimination

2) Q --- assumed [a]

3) P → Q --- by →-Introduction

4) ¬P --- assumed [b]

5) P --- assumed [c]

6) contradiction

7) Q --- from 6)

8) P → Q --- by →-Introduction, discharging [c]

Having derived P → Q under both assumptions [a] and [b], we may discharge them by Disjunction Elimination and conclude from 1) with :


  9) P → Q.


The other "direction" needs https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_negation Double Negation : for details, see the post : https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1002811/proof-that-p-implies-q-entails-not-p-or-q proof that p implies q entails not p or q.
The phrase x̂(x=x) means 'the x such that x=x'. This is just a way of forming a singular term that refers to something. The . is conjunction ('and'). 

So x̂(x=x.R)=x̂(x=x) is logically equivalent to R. And, since R is logically equivalent to S (by assumption), both x̂(x=x.R) and x̂(x=x.S) refer to the same thing. And then x̂(x=x.R)=x̂(x=x) and x̂(x=x.S)=x̂(x=x) refer to the same thing. This is how Davidson gets to the conclusion that any two sentences have the same reference if they are logically equivalent.

  if man is intellect, then there is no difference between Socrates and Plato.


This is simply a reductio ad impossibile argument, which is the weakest form of demonstration (cf. Aristotle's http://dhspriory.org/thomas/PostAnalytica.htm#40 Posterior Analytics I.26).
Mill would, I think, say that yes, we must account both the immediate unhappiness and the subsequent happiness in our calculations.

Bear in mind that Mill has a way of balancing pleasures and assessing which is better, i.e. more desirable - those who have experienced both vote on which is better/higher.  This means that pleasures, even if not quantifiable, are nonetheless comparable.

Moreover, one can (and really must) address both the immediate unhappiness and the subsequent happiness as separate in calculating the best outcome - these are both outcomes of the same action, and no action is so simple that it has only good or only bad outcomes.  Every outcome of every action is always mixed, so a utilitarian calculus really must be able to deal with mixed situations, and Mill's can. The key is to separate the good from the bad and value each individually, then weigh them against one another.

So, when someone's best happiness is achieved through momentary initial suffering, Mill would very simply weigh the likely initial suffering against the likely subsequent happiness, and if the happiness accreted over time is of a greater magnitude than the unhappiness in the immediate term, it is, on balance, a good thing to do.
Eventually, dividing something into smaller and smaller parts causes the thing to lose its emergent properties (i.e., its inherent characteristics that we can observe in it and use to describe it). For example, dividing a cell into subcellular components will cause the cell to lose its emergent properties (e.g., self-replication, RNA translation, homeostasis, metabolism, etc.). Plato specifically refered to further dividing atoms into smaller and smaller parts: an element is defined by the number of protons in its nucleus; if we further divide an atom of Carbon (6 protons), it will lose at least a portion of these protons and become some other type of atom (e.g., maybe now we have two atoms with 3 protons each = Lithium). 

Advances in our understanding of science can further assist us in dissecting Plato's point. For instance, Kenneth Wilson, a Nobel Laureate Mathematician/Physicist, defines the correlation length as the smallest amount of something needed for its properties that are apparent in larger amounts to subsist. This conception is analogous to Plato's, although more realistic implications are outlined. 

Here is a link to the particular Wilson paper, titled "The renormalization group and the epsilon exapansion": https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/e372/a0dc3053d0630788bc778dbffd6b4ea5d34b.pdf https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/e372/a0dc3053d0630788bc778dbffd6b4ea5d34b.pdf
Thomas Aquinas's short work http://dhspriory.org/thomas/DePrincNaturae.htm De Principiis Naturæ concisely summarizes the three types of analogy:


  
  […] "Being" [ens], however, is not a genus because it is not https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/37148/2014 predicated univocally, but only analogically.
  In order to understand this last we must notice something is predicated of many things in three ways: univocally, equivocally and analogically.
  
  
  Something is predicated univocally according to the same name and the same nature, i.e., definition, as animal is predicated of man and of ass, because each is called animal and each is a sensible, animated substance, which is the definition of animal.
  That is predicated equivocally which is predicated of some things according to the same name but according to a different nature, as dog is said of the thing that barks and of the star in the heavens, which two agree in the name but not in the definition or in signification, because that which is signified by the name is the definition, as is said in the http://dhspriory.org/thomas/Metaphysics4.htm#1 fourth book of the Metaphysics.
  That is said to be predicated analogically which is predicated of many whose natures are diverse but which are attributed to one same thing, as health is said of the animal body, or urine and of food, but it does not signify entirely the same thing in all three; it is said of urine as a sign of health, of body as of a subject and of food as of a cause. But all these natures are attributed to one end, namely to health. 
  
  Sometimes those things which agree according to analogy, i.e., in proportion, comparison or agreement, are attributed to one end, as was plain in the preceding example of health. Sometimes they are attributed to one agent, as medical is said of one who acts with art, of one who acts without art, as a midwife, and even of the instruments; but it is said of all by attribution to one agent which is medicine. Sometimes it is said by attribution to one subject, as "being" is said of substance, quantity, quality and the other https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/37148/2014 predicaments, because it is not entirely for the same reason that substance is being, and quantity and the others. Rather, all are called being in so far as they are attributed to substance which is the subject of the others. 
  Therefore being is said primarily of substance and secondarily of the others. Therefore "being" is not a genus of substance and quantity because no genus is predicated of its species according to prior and posterior; rather, "being" is predicated analogically. This is what we mean when we say that substance and quantity differ generically but are the same analogically. 
  


The related text of Aristotle is http://dhspriory.org/thomas/Metaphysics4.htm#1 Metaphysics IV ch. 2, 1003b22 (cf. http://dhspriory.org/thomas/Metaphysics4.htm#1 Aquinas's commentary on this):


  The term being [ὂν] is used in many senses, but with reference to one thing and to some one nature and not equivocally. Thus everything healthy is related to health, one thing because it preserves health, another because it causes it, another because it is a sign of it (as urine) and still another because it is receptive of it. The term medical is related in a similar way to the art of medicine; for one thing is called medical because it possesses the art of medicine, another because it is receptive of it, and still another because it is the act of those who have the art of medicine. We can take other words which are used in a way similar to these. And similarly there are many senses in which the term being is used, but each is referred to a first principle. For some things are called beings because they are substances; others because they are affections of substances; others because they are a process toward substance, or corruptions or privations or qualities of substance, or because they are productive or generative principles of substance, or of things which are related to substance, or the negation of some of these or of substance. For this reason too we say that non-being is non-being.


Réginald Garrigou-Lagrange's https://www.ewtn.com/library/THEOLOGY/REALITY.HTM#05 Reality: A Sythesis of Thomistic Thought ch. 5 art. 3, § "The Idea of Being," explains "analogy of being":


  Being, for St. Thomas,194 is a notion, not univocal but analogous, since otherwise it could not be divided and diversified. A univocal idea (e.g.: genus) is diversified by differences extrinsic to genus (animality, e.g.: by specific animal differences). Now, nothing is extrinsic to being (ens). Here Parmenides enters. Being, he says, cannot be something other than being, and the only other thing than being is nothing, is non-being, and non-being is not. St. Thomas replies: "Parmenides and his followers were deceived in this: They used the word being (ens) as if it were univocal, one in idea and nature, as if it were a genus. This is an impossible position. Being (ens) is not a genus, since it is found in things generically diversified."195
  
  Duns Scotus196 returns in a manner to the position of Parmenides, that being is a univocal notion. Suarez,197 seeking a middle way between Aquinas and Scotus, maintains that the objective concept of being (ens) is simply one (simpliciter unus): and that consequently everything that is in any manner (e.g.: matter and essence) is being in act (ens in actu). This viewpoint granted, we can no longer conceive pure potency. It would be extra ens, hence, simply nothing. The Aristotelian notion of real potency (medium between actuality and nothing) disappears, and the argument of Parmenides is insoluble.Footnotes194. Ens non est univocum, sed analogum, alioquin diversificari non posset195. http://dhspriory.org/thomas/Metaphysics1.htm#9 In Metaph.: Bk. 1, chap. 5, lect. 9. See http://scholastic.us.to/24Thomisticpart2.htm#thesis4 the fourth of the http://scholastic.us.to/24Thomisticpart2.htm twenty-four Thomistic theses196. Opus Oxon.: Bk. 1, dist 3, q. 2, nos. 5 ff. ;dist. V, q. 1;dist. 8, q. 3; IV Met.: q. 1.197. Disp. met.: II, sect. 2, no. 34; XV, sect. 9; XXX and XXXI


See also Part II of his https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/book/4540 Essence & Topicality of Thomism for more on Parmenides vs. Heraclitus and analogy of being.

A good introductory book on Aquinas's doctrine of analogy of being is:


McInerny, Ralph. 1996. https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/book/5064 Aquinas & Analogy. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press.(cf. https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/matches/authors/23 the other works by McInerny on analogy)


For an advanced text, see the 4 vol. https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/search?query=%22De%20Analogia%22 De Analogia by https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/matches/authors/65 Jacobus M. Ramírez.
It is a syllogism "in disguise".

The "standard" form is :


  All men are mortal;
  
  Socrates is a man.
  
  
    Therefore, Socrates is mortal.
  


If we consider its logical form, it is : 


  P,Q ⊨ R


that is equivalent to :


  
    P ⊨ Q → R.
  

There's not much evidence to determine whether the statement is true or not. It might be easiest to explain with a truth table:


A = Juan approves
S = His girlfried is sad



A  S  |  ~  A  →  S
--------------------
0  0  |  1  0  0  0  
0  1  |  1  0  1  1  
1  0  |  0  1  1  0  
1  1  |  0  1  1  1  


The column under the arrow indicates the truth value of the statement under all the possible scenarios. It's true under all conditions except for when both A and S are false.

Knowing that Juan has approved and that his girlfriend is sad only tells us that A and S are true, corresponding with the last row of the table. That doesn't falsify the statement, but it also isn't enough to establish its truth. There are other scenarios which could possibly falsify it.
On the 7th of the http://scholastic.us.to/24Thomisticpart2.htm 24 Thomistic Theses,


  Creatura spiritualis est in sua essentia omnino simplex. Sed remanet in ea compositio duplex: essentiae cum esse et substantiae cum accidentibus.
  
  The spiritual creature is as to its essence altogether simple. Yet there remains a twofold composition in it: that, namely, of essence with existence and that of substance with accidents.


https://www.ewtn.com/library/THEOLOGY/REALITY.HTM#05 The real distinction between essence (essentia) and existence (esse) (as well as between potentiality and actuality) is fundamental to Thomistic thought. It is the subject of St. Thomas's first key philosophical work, http://dhspriory.org/thomas/DeEnte&Essentia.htm De Ente et Essentia.

Benedict Ashley explains, in https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/book/2920 The Way toward Wisdom: An Interdisciplinary and Intercultural Introduction to Metaphysics, "Chapter IV: The Culminating Foundational Theorem of Natural Science," § "2). Proof that a First Immaterial Cause Exists":


  For Aristotle natural science demonstrates that motion (or change in general) is the natural and proper act of existing changeable, material substances and hence manifests the nature or essence of these existents, that is, that they are essentially changeable. The reason for this is that they are composed of matter (potency) and form (act). Basing himself on this conclusion of Aristotle, Aquinas then shows that existent substances composed of matter and form must also be composed of essence and existence. Hence no body can give itself esse, the act of "to be," any more than it can give form to its matter, that is, move itself. Aquinas' reasoning for this further conclusion is that matter receives its existence from its correlative, but cannot do so unless the form is not merely possible but actual. Forms of material things, however, do not have existence of themselves, since they exist only as an actualization of a matter.
  
  Aquinas considers the possibility that a form might be able to exist without matter, as he really believes to be the case with the angels. Even such a pure form, however, unless its very essence is to exist, would have to receive its existence from the absolutely Unmoved Mover. A fortiori this is the case for the human soul that naturally requires a body and for all material things composed of matter and form. That ordinary substances composed of matter and form do not exist by their very nature is evident in our experience, since we observe that all such substances come into existence and pass away. Even if we consider the hypothesis that there are some material substances (Aristotle's celestial spheres) composed of an extraordinary kind of matter that exists eternally in motion, yet if they have a matter-form composition their existence cannot be self-explanatory but requires another agent. If such an agent is material, it cannot produce eternal motion, and, if immaterial, cannot be a finite intelligence, but must be the absolutely Unmoved Mover. No step in this argument requires a metaphysical notion of Being as ens commune but only the analysis of ens mobile proper to natural science. If the argument were proper to metaphysics, it would be circular since, as we have seen, metaphysics presupposes its conclusion, namely, that immaterial substances exist.


That work also discusses angels extensively because of the importance of the existence of immaterial beings for metaphysics to be a real science (as sciences must have real objects of study).Also, see Réginald Garrigou-Lagrange's https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/book/4540 The Essence & Topicality of Thomism, which discusses all this concisely.

Although all analogies break down at some point, it could be thought of this way:matter : form :: essence : existence.

http://scholastic.us.to/24Thomisticpart2.htm Lumbreras gives this explanation of the 7th Thesis:


  Commentary: The essence of angels is only Act, for the actuality of the form is not received into the potentiality of matter. Angels, indeed, are but intellectual substances, since to understand is a wholly immaterial operation. …[http://www.dhspriory.org/thomas/summa/FP/FP050.html#FPQ50A1THEP1 Summa Theologiae, Iª q. 50 a. 1 ff.; http://dhspriory.org/thomas/QDdeSpirCreat.htm#1 De spiritualibus creaturis, a. 1]


The semiotician/logician http://www.ontologia.co/semiotics-ontology.htm João Poinsot, O.P. (1589-1644), a.k.a. http://www.ontologia.co/semiotics-ontology.htm John of St. Thomas, wrote more about angels than St. Thomas. Here's his definition of angels:


  Spirituality properly speaking [that is, in the substantial order of first act, whence esse comes, and not merely in the operational order of second act, whence esse is sustained] is rightly demonstrated on the basis of intellectuality. But that angelic beings are pure spirits in no way informing or forms of bodies is proved by this: the fact that angels are  perfect intellectual substances, and not imperfect as we are. Whence, since intellectuality of itself abstracts from body, and does not seek but is rather impeded by bodiliness, if there are bodily intellectual creatures bespeaking imperfection in the intellectual order, there must needs be yet other creatures perfect in that order of understanding, which means creatures lacking bodies and every intrinsic connection with bodies.Poinsot 1643: d. 39, a. 1, 456 ¶36: "In Angelis vero magis est nobis notum quod intelligant, eo quod effectus eorum apud nos ex locutione et aliis intelligentiae actibus magis innotescunt, et ex intellectualitate recte probatur spiritualitas. Quod vero ita sint puri spiritus quod nullum corpus informent, ex eo probatur: quia sunt substantiae intellectuales perfectae, et non sicut nos. Unde cum intellectualitas de se abstrahit a corpore, nec petat illud, sed potius impediatur per corpus, necesse est quod si dantur creaturae intellectuales cum unione ad corpus, quod imperfectionem in eo genere dicit, dabiles sint aliquae creaturae in illo genere intelligendi perfectae, atque adeo omni corpore et corporeo affectu carentes."


Source: "http://www.thomist.org/jourl/2004/April/2004%20Apr%20A%20Deely.htm#N_27_ The Semiosis of Angels" by the prominent semiotician http://morec.com/semiotic/ John Deely (author of the bestselling https://isidore.co/calibre/browse/book/4077 The Basics of Semiotics)
Same locus [translated by R.P. Hardie and R.K. Gaye, from https://books.google.it/books?id=MLbmAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA322 The Complete Works of Aristotle. Volume 1, the Revised Oxford Translation, edited by Jonathan Barnes, 1984]:


  The universal is knowable in the order of explanation, the particular in the order of sense; for explanation has to do with the universal, sense with the particular.


Thus, "empirical" knowledge, based on sense perception, is knowledge of the particular, while "rational" knowledge, i.e. explanation from first principles, is knowledge of the universal.
Okay, I don't think this question is substantially different from another question which I've already marked, but I'll do my best to give you an answer here anyway. Simply put, you're misunderstanding the difference between Act utilitarianism and rule utilitarianism. 

I will define act utilitarianism and rule utilitarianism as follows:

Act utilitarianism:the position that in order to maximize some desirable feature (or minimize some undesirable feature), each agent should for each action pick the course that produces the optimal outcome on the basis of his or her individual knowledge and expectations.

Rule utilitarianism: the position that in order to maximize some desirable feature (or minimize some undesirable feature), rules should be established that produce the optimal outcome across many actions incorporating the limitations and constraints on the information 
available to those agents.

Thus, both seek to optimize outcomes, but act utilitarianism does so by having agents optimize their own acts and rule utilitarianism does so by optimizing rules for actions (not generally at the agent level).

You propose the following rule:


  Rule Set B': Follow Rule Set B in every case except for in situation X , in which case do act A  


What's proposed in B' is basically a reduction to the following rule: always be an act utilitarian because this produces maximal happiness. I take it that's your point, viz., that the best type of rule a rule utilitarian could come up with is to be an act utilitarian. And that's probably true on the definition you supply.

But the definition you supply differs from the one I suggest here precisely in that it does not incorporate the problems with calculating utility on the spot that rule utilitarianism seeks to address. 

Rule utilitarianism exists primarily because act utilitarianism on the view of many suffers from an epistemic problem. This is inherent in the formulation of Mill (and Bentham) which does not spell out an answer to the following important question:


  *Am I optimizing actual or expected consequences? (and do I know with certainty the outcome and effects of my actions? do I have enough knowledge or depth of processing power to calculate correctly?)


In other words, am I doing right if I do what I think produces the most happiness or am I doing right if I do what produces the most happiness?

Both horns are problematic. If I pick the think horn, then https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Pests_Campaign Mao killing the sparrows occurs. And Mao is a great guy there for wanting to supply enough food.

Conversely, if I pick the produces horn, then it's not clear that my choices matter for ethics. My accidental choice to not buy the cake on discount may lead to great happiness for a poor family even though I never thought about it. Or my dropping change on the floor might lead to a horrific accident. Here, we'd have a very strong form of moral luck.

The rule utilitarian hedges the question a bit better by coming up with rules that are designed to optimize said goal but that don't depend on the individual agent arriving at the epistemic best path under the stress of the moment. It doesn't completely eliminate the horns, but it dilutes their painfulness, because it can suggest that our duty is to follow rules that seem optimized to produce the ends we want even if in particular cases they don't.

Thus, we can return to your reduction. The rule utilitarian rejects it because it doesn't sufficiently grapple with the agent's epistemic realities. A major point of transitioning from act to rule is to get away from the vagaries and gambling that arise from making judgments at each particular juncture for each particular act.

Thus, for the above reasons, I don't think your reduction truly captures the position of the rule utilitarian. Instead, it just makes him an act utilitarian who doesn't think rules add anything.
This is an English translation of the Latin motto https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suum_cuique suum cuique, alternatively translated as "to each their own" or "may all get their due". The phrase was popularized by Cicero in De Natura Deorum ("iustitia suum cuique distribuit", justice renders to everyone his due) and later codified in the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corpus_Juris_Civilis Justinian Corpus of Civil Law:"Justice is a habit whereby a man renders to each one his due with constant and perpetual will". 

However, the idea goes back to http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0168%3Abook%3D4%3Asection%3D433a Plato's Republic 4.433, the argument being appeal to tradition and authority that men must serve the state according to their nature, for that makes the state "virtuous". Socrates argues:


  "For what we laid down in the beginning as a universal requirement when we were founding our city, this I think, or some form of this, is justice. And what we did lay down, and often said, you recall, was that each one man must perform one social service in the state for which his nature is best adapted.” “Yes, we said that.” “And again that to do one's own business and not to be a busybody is justice, is a saying that we have heard from many and have often repeated ourselves.” “We have.” “This, then,” I said, “my friend, if taken in a certain sense appears to be justice, this principle of doing one's own business.
  
  “A thing, then, that in its contribution to the excellence of a state vies with and rivals its wisdom, its soberness, its bravery, is this principle of everyone in it doing his own task.” “It is indeed,” he said. “And is not justice the name you would have to give to the principle that rivals these as conducing to the virtue of state?” “By all means.” “Consider it in this wise too if so you will be convinced. Will you not assign the conduct of lawsuits in your state to the rulers?” “Of course.” “Will not this be the chief aim of their decisions, that no one shall have what belongs to others or be deprived of his own? Nothing else but this.” “On the assumption that this is just?” “Yes.”"


The latter idea of distributive justice is discussed by Aristotle in http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/nicomachaen.5.v.html Nicomachean Ethics, who rephrases it in terms of distributive "equality by merit" (and is contrasted with the "rectificatory" justice). His argument is a bit more pragmatic, advancing social harmony and citing the existing consensus:


  "If, then, the unjust is unequal, just is equal, as all men suppose it to be, even apart from argument... if they are not equal, they will not have what is equal, but this is the origin of quarrels and complaints-when either equals have and are awarded unequal shares, or unequals equal shares. Further, this is plain from the fact that awards should be 'according to merit'; for all men agree that what is just in distribution must be according to merit in some sense, though they do not all specify the same sort of merit, but democrats identify it with the status of freeman, supporters of oligarchy with wealth (or with noble birth), and supporters of aristocracy with excellence." 


See also http://www.heritage.org/poverty-and-inequality/report/the-meaning-justice Kirk's Meaning of Justice.
https://books.google.it/books?id=C1r-9C8yP34C&pg=PA18 Parsons' comment is relative to the original (1908) https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/zermelo-set-theory/#Sep Zermelo's axiomatization of 
set theory.

One of the weak point of the axiomatization was the use of the vague concept of "definite property" in the statement of Separation Axiom:


  Whenever the propositional function Fx is definite for all elements of a set M ... [“Klassenaussage F(x) definit fur alle Elemente einer Menge M...”]


In his https://books.google.it/books?id=XB2nd2ovakIC&pg=PA390 mature (1930) axiomatization, Zermelo explicitly uses second-order logic in the formulation:


  Axiom of separation: Every propositional function F(x) separates from
  every set m a subset mF containing all those elements x for which F(x) is true. Or: To each part of a set there in turn corresponds a set containing all elements of this part.


In https://books.google.it/books?id=XB2nd2ovakIC&pg=PA352 1929, Zermelo redefined the set of "allowed" propositional functions as those expressions 


  constructed from the fundamental relations of the system only by virtue of the logical elementary operations of negation, conjunction and disjunction, as well as quantification, all these operations in arbitrary yet finite repetition and composition.


If we formalize it, we get exactly Parsons' formulation:


  
    (∀z)(∀F)(∃y)(∀x)[x ∈ y ↔ (x ∈ z ∧ Fx)]
  


where Fx is a propositional function built up from "fundamental relations".

For set theory, the fundamental relations are like:


  x=y and x ∈ y.


Thus, x=x and the "paradoxical" x ∉ x are allowed, because they are well-formed expressions.

But the well-known Russell's paradox is blocked because we have no "universal set" z to use with Separation in order to "cut out" from it the set y of all and only those x such that: x ∈ z ∧ x ∉ x.

Thus, the "legitimate" predicate x=x does not define a set, because there is no way, with Zermelo's axioms, to prove that the set { x | x = x } exists.

What we can do, with Separation, is to prove that, for any existsing set z, the subset of z : { x | x ∈ z ∧ x = x } exists.

Another example can be found with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cantor%27s_paradox Cantor's Paradox (1897): assume that we can define a predicate Card(x) such that Card(c) holds iff c is a cardinal number. Then the set { x | Card(x) } does not exists.

The paradoxes related to "size", like Russell's and Cantor's one, are blocked by the restriction imposed by Separation to comprehension.

The formal condition of "definiteness" stated by Zermelo is aimed at ruling out a different family of paradoxes: the so-called "semantical" antinomies, like the Richard and Konig's ones, because an expression like e.g. "definable in English by a finite number of words" is not expressible by way of "fundamental relations".
According to Wikipedia, this is an informal fallacy known as the "Post hoc ergo propter hoc"


  Latin for "after this, therefore because of this" (faulty cause/effect, coincidental correlation, correlation without causation) – X happened, then Y happened; therefore X caused Y.


This fallacy becomes the foundation of the anecdote described in the OP. Thus it creates a "regression fallacy" 


  Ascribing cause where none exists... failing to account for natural fluctuations.


Or perhaps you can apply the informal fallacy known as the "Gambler's fallacy"


  the incorrect belief that separate, independent events can affect the likelihood of another random event. If a fair coin lands on heads 10 times in a row, the belief that it is "due to the number of times it had previously landed on tails" is incorrect.


This can be paired with the "hot hand fallacy" which uses the same flawed reasoning to say that the pattern of a series increases the likelihood of it continuing. In this case, "If a fair coin lands on heads 10 times in a row", the belief is that it will continue to land on heads again. Or the fact that a person has guessed correctly what face would be up 10 times, means that they are more likely to be correct the 11th time.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fallacies LINK

  Is there a moral reason to do what Hitler did not and to avoid what he
  did because it was he who did or did not, respectively?


It sounds like you're asking, is it OK to endorse vegetarianism, citing Adolf Hitler as an example of vegetarianism?

It depends on the context/situation, but you probably won't get much mileage out of such statements because Hitler has been so demonized.

I would actually like to see more comments about Hitler's good side to balance the insane demonization that makes it almost impossible to know the truth. I would also like to see an end to the use of Hitler and the Nazis as a metaphor for evil incarnate.

What about the Romans, Spanish and British, who carved empires out of blood? What about Caligula, Vlad the Impaler or U.S. President Andrew Jackson?

How was Hitler worse than Stalin? And how was he more racist than Churchill, Roosevelt or the French?

Focusing more closely on your question, I wouldn't say it's unethical to invoke Hitler as a symbol of clean living. But it wouldn't make much sense, because most people would have a mini-mental breakdown. You'd be better off replacing Hitler with Obama, who murdered so many innocent people with unmanned drones.


  Is there a moral reason to do what Hitler did...


Like not smoking? One could well argue that not smoking is a moral act, but linking it to Hitler or anyone else doesn't make much sense. It's a moral act all by itself. If 10,000 nuns smoked, not smoking would still be an intelligent (and quite possibly moral) choice.

EDIT:

To further put this question in perspective, just replace "Hitler" with the name of one of history's biggest monsters, like Caligula, Abraham Lincoln or Milton Friedman.

Many people regard Lincoln as an all-American hero and might therefore appreciate using his image to promote drinking milk or whatever good things he did. However, Lincoln also presided over the biggest mass execution in American history and may not be too highly admired by Native Americans.
Natural languages and formal languages are very different things, with different functions.  Any formal language can at best cover a small subset of the domain of discourse of natural language, but with the advantage of eliminating ambiguity and providing strict definitions for validity and invalidity. There are formal logics, like formal mathematics, that have proven valuable for applications quite distant from their origins (for example, computer programming).

It is not so much the case that possibility, fictionality and counterfactuality are necessarily more difficult, it is that they are outside what can be fluently covered by traditional logics.  New and different kinds of formal languages called modal logics needed to be created in order to translate such concepts.  How well they succeeded is a matter of opinion, but keep in mind a formal language concept is never an exact translation of a natural language concept, but only at best a plausible approximation.
Answer to the first version of the question.

Because, see the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Material_conditional#Truth_table truth table for →, a conditional with false antecedent is always true.

I assume that you are evaluating the truth value of the formula: (p→q) → (q→p).

If so, two cases:

1) p is TRUE

2) p is FALSE.

In this case, the formula is evaluated to: (F→q) → (q→F).

We have that (F→q) is T, for q whatever (conditional with false antecedent).

Thus, the formula becomes: T → (q→F)

We may check that (q→F) is equivalent to ¬q (again: check with a truth table).

In conclusion, we have that the original formula, when p is FALSE, is equivalent to: T → ¬q.

We use truth table again to check that this in turn is equivalent to ¬q: when q is TRUE, we have that T → ¬q is T → F, i.e. F, and when q is FALSE, T → ¬q is T → T, i.e. T.



For a possible justification of the truth table for the conditional, we can use the classical equivalence of A → B and ¬(A ∧ ¬B), that translate the reading of the conditional as: "B is a necessary condition for A".

If ¬(A ∧ ¬B) is TRUE, then either A is FALSE or ¬B is FALSE.

Thus, a conditional A → B has the value TRUE either when A has the value FALSE or B has the value TRUE, otherwise A → B has the value FALSE.



Classical propositional logic (or boolean logic) is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Truth_function truth-functional in the sense that the meaning of a formula is its truth value.

This is shown by the fact that proposiational letters: p, q, ... are interpreted always assigning them truth values: T and F.

This implies that the "meaning" of the connectives are exactly what is defined by their respective truth tables.

In this sense, the answer is exactly:


  
    Because the truth table says so.
  

You are trying to prove: ∃x (Fx → ∀x Fx) and your derivation starts with the assumption Fx.

If so, the step with the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_generalization Universal Generalization, deriving ∀xFx from Fx, is wrong.

The rule has the proviso that the variable to be quantified, in this case x, must not be free in any assumption; in the proof, we have Fx as assumption, and x is free in it.

The proviso formalizes the intuitive rule that "what holds for any, holds for all". I.e. if we consider a "generic" object x and we prove that P holds of it, we can infer that Px holds for every x.

In order to be sound, the above rule must be applied to an x whatever: an x for which no presupposition has been stated.

This fact will be formalized with the restriction that no assumption regarding x must be present in the proof. If so, we can safely generalize it. 

In the (wrong) proof above, we assume Fx, and thus we cannot assert that x is "generic", because we do not know if every object is F or not.



For a discussion, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drinker_paradox Drinker paradox.

For proofs, see the posts: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/412387/why-is-this-true-exists-xpx-rightarrow-forall-y-py Why is this true and https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/807092/proof-of-drinker-paradox Proof of Drinker paradox.
First of all, there is a category error here, comparing utilitarianism -- an entire class of related forms of ethics, to Kantianism -- a very specific theory, is not possible.

If one chose utility functions in such a way that autonomy was a highly valued form of pleasure and utilities topped out at a given level, you could pretty much achieve a form of utilitarianism that consistently gave the same results as Kant.  So then how can you decide between these isomorphic but independent theories?

But even then, the two have rather different orientations.  Kant is not intended to work out the solution to very specific problems.  The notion of contingent duties means that it will very seldom actually give you a direct answer to a fully expressed question.  At some point, you will introduce a detail that causes some aspect of some duty involved to be contingent, and then in deference to your own autonomy, Kant will not tell you precisely what to do.

For general questions like murder or lying about which humans already have strong intuition anyway, Kant gives a reason to trust our existing human instincts by putting them into a general framework in which most folks can see the value.

Utilitarianism has very much the opposite focus, it is almost impossible to apply to general questions without details, because you cannot predict the suffering of someone without knowing pretty specifically how they are going to be treated.  And even then, you cannot propose a way of combining different kinds of suffering without a strong cultural basis for differentiating values: do we find mental anguish to be pain, or the fear of change?  Which one should we weighted more?  Different traditions would give rather different answers there.

So each is terribly weak at different kinds of questions, and where each is best, that one is generally going to give you back a clarified reflection of what you, yourself, put in.

So in practice, the value in these systems is not really in determining morality, but in grounding agreements and opening negotiations.  Neither is generally better at this.
You're not wrong, but rather than thinking of possible worlds as being "inside" other possible worlds, it's better to think of some worlds as being possible relative to others.

For example, let's say it's possible to fly to the moon. That means that there is a world - call it v - which is possible relative to our world, in which we do fly to the moon.

But there might be another possible world - call it w - where we have used up all the fuel, and so it is not possible to fly to the moon. In this case, v is not possible relative to w.

According to possible worlds semantics, []A is true at a possible world w if and only if A is true at every world v which is possible relative to w. 

So [][]A is true at w if and only if for every world v possible relative to w, and every world u possible relative to v, A is true at u.

Likewise <>A is true at w if and only if at some world v possible relative to w, A is true at v. So []<>A is true at w if and only if at every world v possible relative to w, there is some world u such that A is true at u.

One reason for your confusion might be that in one of the simplest modal logics, S5, every world is considered possible relative to every other.

In this case if []A or <>A are true at any world, they are true at every world, and so [][]A and []<>A end up saying much the same thing.

But in other modal logics in which not every world is considered to be possible relative to others, more interesting things can happen.
It is difficult to analyze existence as a predicate, property or reference.  It may or may not be a property, it might be a property of realities whose inverse is only a property of fictions, etc...  And an overall theory of opposites requires doing so.  So coming at the question from that angle is hard work probably not worth doing.

Instead, before you get to existence, just realize that one or the other properties your object definitely has probably already has the same diseases that 'existing' does, and those flaws are easier to see.

There are many dimensions along which to contrast two things, and many of those dimensions do not have a single sense of opposition.


Location in space, for instance:  Your opposite should not be here.  Could it have its center an infinitessimal distance away?  Would that be 'not here'?  Do the opposite positions in space at least have to not overlap?  Maybe 'here' is two inches to my left.  Then is the opposite two inches to my right?  Is it the position on the opposite side of the Earth from the point two inches to my left?  Is it he opposite position relative to some centerpoint in space?
Color: Maybe it is pink.  According to what color wheel or radiation composition chart should I choose the opposite color?  Is it forest green, or does it predominantly emit some wavelength distribution that is made up of the reciprocal energies to those that make up red light diffused with white?
Time: This thing exists now.  When is the opposite of now?  Can this thing's lifespan and its opposite overlap and still be opposites?


Only concepts have opposites, a single actual referent involves too many conceptual frameworks to avoid having some of those not defining opposition.
[Since the OP found my comments helpful, I decided to expand them to a fuller answer.]

1. Preliminary remark

In the original post, the (unmodified) Liar Sentence was stated thus:

(L) This sentence is false.

Note the demonstrative ‘this sentence’. In turn, since mathematical languages don’t usually include demonstratives, this version of the Liar Sentence can’t easily be formalised, which may be a disadvantage. The main alternative would be to use ‘L is false’ as L, thus generating the self-reference by letting L use its own name. Yet ‘L is false’ is non-paradoxical per se, and paradoxical only if it is named ‘L’. So, does ‘L is false’ show something about truth, or about our use of names? Let’s leave that discussion and let’s go with (L) as it stands.

2. The Proposal

The solution advocated in the original post is to claim that L fails to express a proposition. Thus, the proposal is to endorse P:

(P) Sentence L does not express a proposition.

I think the rationale behind P is: Neither the claim that L is true, nor the claim that L is false, is tenable. So, we must avoid both claims. However, we don’t just want to say that L expresses a proposition that is neither true nor false; for, then the paradox can be restated as ‘This sentence is not true’. So, instead, we’ll say that L does not express a proposition at all. If it doesn’t, the question of whether it is true or false does not even arise – no more than the question of whether the Eiffel Tower is true.

The proposal faces the following problem: What shall we say about L+, below? If we extend P to this sentence and say that L+ does not express a proposition, either, then it looks as though L+ is true: after all, what it says is the case. Yet if L+ is true, then it does not express a true proposition, in which case it can’t be true. Finally, if L+ is false, it does express a true proposition, in which case it is true again.

(L+) This sentence does not express a true proposition.

In the original post, this problem is answered by holding that L+ is never true. To motivate this, note that e.g. the Eiffel Tower is never true, either – simply because the Eiffel Tower isn’t the kind of thing that can be true (or false). Likewise, L+ also isn’t the kind of thing that can be true or false – because it does not express a proposition. Thus, even under the assumption that L+ does not express a proposition, L+ is not true, contrary to the first step in the argument.

3. Objection

As the proposal stands, it is not very convincing because (a) there is a proposition that L+ seems to express, and (b) we have a reason for thinking that it does express this or some other proposition. Let’s start with (a), by noting that OP wants to endorse P+, which entails Q+.

(P+) Sentence L+ does not express a proposition.

(Q+) Sentence L+ does not express a true proposition.

Presumably, OP thinks that Q+ expresses a proposition, viz. the proposition that L+ does not express a true proposition. Let’s speak of PROP to mean that proposition. So, what reason is there for thinking that L+ doesn’t also express PROP? On the face of it, L+ is the subject of both Q+ and L+, and both claim of their subject that it does not express a true proposition. So, aren’t they saying the same thing? Don’t both express PROP? If not, what’s the difference?

Suppose I point at L+ and say: ‘OP believes that this sentence does not express a true proposition’. That seems like a true belief report, and it seems to express that the belief-relation holds between OP and PROP. Yet for that to happen, my use of L+ = ‘this sentence does not express a true proposition’ somehow singles out PROP. If so, why can’t those words express PROP when they occur on their own, viz. as L+? (Here, the preliminary remark, and the nature of demonstratives, may become relevant.)

The upshot is that we need to be told some story about why L+ does not express PROP. A Tarskian / Contextualist may have such a story; but we can’t just claim that L+ does not express a proposition and consider the Liar Paradox solved. Further, whatever story we do tell, it needs to say something about the Principle of Compositionality.

(PoC) For all complex expressions e, the meaning of e is determined by the meanings of e’s constituents, together with e syntactic structure.

Given that the constituents of L+ are meaningful, and given that L+ is syntactically non-defective, PoC entails that L+ is meaningful. That’s not quite the same as expressing a proposition, but it’s close enough to make trouble. In particular, if the constituents of Q+ compose to express PROP, why don’t the constituents of L+? Individually, all the constituents seem to have the right semantic values.

4. The ad hoc concern

As I said, we need a reason for denying that L+ expresses a proposition. The OP’s suggestion was that the paradox itself provides such a reason: L+ couldn’t express a proposition; because if it did, there would be a paradox. To support this, OP points out that Naïve Comprehension [NC] was rejected because it led to a paradox (viz. Russell’s). And that was the only reason for rejecting it (according to OP). So why isn’t it a good-enough reason to reject that L+ expresses a proposition?

One answer, I think, is that Russell’s Paradox directly challenges NC. NC says: ‘For every F, there’s a set of all Fs’, and the paradox then asks: ‘What about F = does not contain itself as element?’ Since NC can’t answer this question, it looks like NC is directly responsible for our troubles. (Though Dummett argued otherwise?) By contrast, there is no one principle that generates the Liar Paradox, where we’d say: ‘Yeah, that’s the culprit!’ The Liar Paradox has a number of ingredients, so that it really would be ad hoc to just pick one and discard it.
Before anything else one should be aware of the instrument used to answer questions. That instrument is human language. While there is no guarantee that such a system of patterns is powerful and expressive enough to reason about the necessity of all that is, we can still examine what can we reasonably say and understand about this.

Let us begin by finding out the difference between Something and Nothing. 

Obviously they are opposites - first word denotes the present state of affairs of all that is and the other one its negation. We can be fairly confident that right now Something is and Nothing is not. 

So why is it this way? Could there be Nothing instead of Something? Turns out the answer is surprisingly simple and straightforward: if Nothing could be, then it would inevitably be Something - giving us a contradiction with our initial premises, thus demonstrating that Nothing cannot be. 

In other words, there is Something because it cannot be otherwise - it is an inevitability that arises from the complete, utter and total incapacity of Nothing to exist as such.

A more formal version of the same argument can be found from https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/1119/602 @anon's answer.

In short: Something is because Nothing is not.

Or to quote "The Way Of Truth" by http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/parmenides/ Parmenides: For never shall this prevail, that things that are not are.




An update in response to comment by OP


This is not circular reasoning. You are missing the point that we reason only through language which is a limited system of rules. Breaking a rule results in error.

The above question makes the error of assuming that non-being can be. It is self-contradictory. In the same way one can ask why is there no darkness in light or why is there no silence in sound.

Apparently you presume that if there is a word ("nothing"), then it must have an object, i.e. a correspondence with something beyond your own imagination. Not true!

Nothing is the opposite of Something, it does not and can not be. 
There is a recent philosophical novel entitled http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0307378187 36 Arguments for the Existence of God by philosopher Rebecca Goldstein (who happens to be married to Steven Pinker) which contains a catalog of 36 arguments (and the corresponding refutations).  

Other than this, I can't think of any recent literature on the subject, which as you note, is rather well worn.
The concepts of "good" and "evil" form the basis of our moral viewpoints, and science suggests we develop these viewpoints on an individual level with influences from our cultural upbringing. That is, it is suggested that all people (including the religious) take their moral viewpoints not from a book or a higher power but from an amalgamation of cultural standards and our own ratiocination.

The Poverty of "Universal Morality"

There is a natural tendency in human beings to believe that there is a purpose to our existence. Those who do not claim to know the purpose at the very least like to believe that one exists, for a purposeless life would be thus a life without meaning, and a life without meaning does not seem to be one worth living. Whether people realize it or not, everyone's views of morality all hinge upon this idea—that there is some purpose or goal of our existence and each of our actions must be done in a way which maximizes our likelihood of reaching this goal or fulfilling our purpose. As simple as it sounds, however, there is an inherent challenge to discovering "ultimate" purpose or some universal meaning among things. Indeed, knowledge regarding the intrinsic nature of the universe is quite clearly outside the scope of human cognition, let alone scientific investigation. Just as one cannot seriously claim to know what the "First Cause" or first event of the universe was, so too can one never claim to know anything about an ultimate purpose, as one could always postulate a superior purpose. For example, one can claim the "Big Bang" is the first event, but our very concept of time implies there is always a before and after. Thus, one can conceive of an event prior to the Big Bang, perhaps initiating the Big Bang itself, and something initiating that too, and so on and so forth. This is called infinite regress, and it is essentially the same problem which undermines any potential claim as to the ultimate purpose or meaning in the universe. We may conceive of the universe as an expanding bubble or crystal ball within the palm of a divine creators hand as he peers deep inside, and yet through our unbounded concept of space we will invariably ask, "What universe is this divine creator himself standing in?" Not only that, but where did he come from? Our very core concepts of time and space lead us to always question any ultimate beginning or ultimate endpoints, and thus—until these paradigms are changed—it seems that the answers to such questions will be forever beyond our grasp.

And yet, this new understanding does not make the concept of morality completely defunct. It simply moves the concept of morality from its prior universal pedestal to the pedestal of social contingency. That is, the morality we speak of is not a phenomenon of the universe itself but of social groups1. Contrary to one's initial reaction to this finding, being contingent and not universal actually makes our task much easier; for imagine if we had to set out to investigate that which underlies the fabric of the universe? Again, a virtually impossible task. What is left for us instead is to find out what provides the basis for the widespread (although not completely universal) human tendency towards a moral state, what bearing it has in relation to our evolutionary past, and how we can use this knowledge to better ourselves.

1 Extra care was taken here not to say "human" social groups, as morality surely exists in non-human animal species to varying degrees (Brosnan, 2010; Haan, 1982), and it is conceivable that even an alien race would abide by a moral code.

God/the Bible is actually not a source of morality

The first part to my answer already shows why God cannot be a source of morality, and many people have spoken of the moral shortcomings of the Bible so I won't belabor the point too much. Sam Harris in Letter to a Christian Nation, puts it best when he wrote:


  The idea that the Bible is a perfect guide to morality is simply
  astounding, given the contents of the book. God’s counsel to parents
  is straightforward: whenever children get out of line, we should beat
  them with a rod (Proverbs 13:24, 20:30, and 23:13-14). If they are
  shameless enough to talk back to us, we should kill them (Leviticus
  20:9, Deuteronomy 21:18-21, Mark 7:9-13, and Matthew 15:4-7). We must
  also stone people to death for heresy, adultery, homosexuality,
  working on the Sabbath, worshiping graven images, practicing sorcery,
  and a wide variety of other imaginary crimes. (p. 8)


Further investigations into the moral constitution of the Bible show that the practice of slavery is supported in both the New (Matthew 10:24/24:45-46, Ephesians 6:5, 1 Timothy 6:1-4) and Old Testaments. The Bible even tells us we are free to sell our daughters into slavery, and the things we can’t do to our slaves is beat them so much that they go blind or lose their teeth (Exodus 21:26-27).

It has been suggested that the Bible was morally appropriate for the time it was written; even if this is true, such a position concurs that the Bible is no longer a viable source of morality in modern times. The point is that—however you slice it—the Bible cannot seriously be thought of as a source of morality in any reasonably moral person alive today.

So where then does morality come from?

Although http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Piaget Jean Piaget was one of the earliest recognized to have developed a set of stages for moral development in children, it was http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Kohlberg Lawrence Kohlberg who would later develop the famous http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Kohlberg%27s_stages_of_moral_development 6 stages of moral development still used today in psychological instruments and research. Although they have undergone some revision since they were first published over fifty years ago, they have been heavily verified by research over the years and remain the dominant theory today regarding moral development from childhood through adulthood.



What studies consistently find is that people of even similar backgrounds and faiths will vary markedly with regard to their "stage", further confirming that there is no set standard or law that everyone draws from, even from within the same religion or culture. 

What researchers have found in the past fifty years of studying moral development is that the greatest predictor of being in the advanced moral stages is not religious or spiritual views but level of education and intelligence.

What does this mean? It means you're a moral person because you're smart. :-) Your age, gender, religious denomination, among others do not significantly predict for moral stage. So when you ask "Are there any non-divine objective standards of good/evil?", the answer is a resounding Yes, there are non-divine standards of good and evil; in fact—as I try to highlight in the second section—it is difficult to suggest that there are any sources of morality other than the "non-divine" standard (holy books, deities, etc).


Bloom, P. (2010). How do morals change? Nature, 464(7288), 490.
Brosnan, S. (2011). An evolutionary perspective on morality. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, 77, 23-30.  Carpendale, J. (2000). Kohlberg and Piaget on stages and moral reasoning. Developmental Review, 20, 181-205.
Endicott, L., Bock, T., & Narvaez, D. (2003). Moral reasoning, intercultural development, and multicultural experiences: relations and cognitive underpinnings. International Journal of Intercultural Relations, 27, 403-419.
Haan, N. (1982). Can Research on Morality in Scientific?. American Psychologist, 37(10), 1096-1104.
Krebs, D., & Denton, K. (2005). Toward a more pragmatic approach to morality: a critical evaluation of Kohlberg’s model. Psychological Review, 112(3), 629-649.
Musschenga, A. (2009). Moral intuitions, moral expertise and moral reasoning. Journal of Philosophy of Education, 43(4), 597-613.
Rest, J., Narvaez, D., Bebeau, M., Thoma, S. (1999). A neo-Kohlbergian approach: The DIT and schema theory. Educational Psychology Review, 11(4), 291-324.  


As long as the use of the term "discovery" indicates an actual discovery, then if the antecedent of the first sentence a) "John discovers Mary is in New York", then it follows that Mary is in New York.  But, this is strictly speaking not a relationship between the sentences, but only between the antecedent of the first sentence and the second sentence.  So, I don't see how the first sentence entails the second, and any claimed entailment has quite a case to make.  Also, b), does not entail a), since Mary might exist in New York and stand undiscovered by John.   
I don't think the dilemma applies to secular ethics, as it is a problem about the nature of God.


  Is what is morally good required by our ethical code because it is morally good, or is it morally good because it is required by our ethical code?


This is tautological-- the two are equivalent.  This is a different state of affairs than the Euthyphro dilemma, where two ostensibly different notions are connected (the good, and God).

I do not overlook that you have anticipated this line of reasoning:


  While it might be tempting to simply say that ethical codes define goodness, we are then forced to ask the meta-question:
  
  How can we choose one ethical code over another?
  
  Whatever criteria we pick will then, itself, be subject to the Euthyphro dilemma.


The question of how we choose one ethical code over another is the subject of meta-ethics, and the literature on this is enormous.  However, if the criteria chosen is a secular one, it escapes the dilemma; there is no dilemma (for example) if one chooses a utilitarian ethics.  If you disagree, I'd ask you to define what the two horns of the dilemma are.
I'd argue that it's not possible to do so.

Language, when describing the world, by very nature, is a tool that sacrifices elements of reality to fit very specific needs.

For example: "The sky is blue."  If you're painting a very basic landscape, this is all you need to know.  However, if you want to understand what the sky is, why it's normally, from where the color originates, what the color is during a sunset, etc., this sentence will not suffice.

Maybe this isn't the greatest example, but the point I'm trying to make is that language is a poor tool for understanding the universal nature of something, because all language can do is provide specific information (related to the task at hand) on a topic at the cost of other information on that same topic.

As I stated before, language is a tool for a specific purpose.  The extent to which this is true becomes more apparent as you compare the grammatical structure and vocabulary of various world languages; being a specific culture's tool for expressing ideas, you can start to see major differences in how cultures think just by analyzing their language.  For example, in Western culture, we emphasize individuality and personal identity.  Japanese culture, by contrast, views people more as a collective community -- in the Japanese language, it is considered rude (or, at best, impolite) to use the words for "I" or "you", instead using expressions which translate roughly to "in this direction" or "in that direction."

As you can see, language is very fitted to the culture that uses it, with different languages having very different abilities and limitations.  The important thing to take away here is that there will always be great limitations in any language.

Buddhism (and perhaps other Eastern philosophies with which I'm not as familiar) takes this idea very seriously, using it to condemn Western philosophy as being impractical because of its dependency on language when describing reality.  Buddhism stresses meditation, not dogma, as a means of understanding the universe and reaching enlightenment, because it realizes that language is too limited a tool to fully express an all-encompassing model of the universe.
The veil of ignorance is not meant to fix something, it describes the problem of the determination of the results of a decision. Rawls applies it to the example of people in a society who have to decide about their future social order, without knowing their own role in the future society. Rawls calls this "not knowing" the "Veil of Ignorance".

I think the problem applies to all societies, also to America. Nobody knows about all implications of any political decision. For example, the introduction of a medical health care system in America was very controversial. However, nobody in America really knows if they would possibly depend on such a system in the future.
The axiom of comprehension allows one to create a contradiction by the Russell's paradox. (A contradiction, supposing you have some axioms implying/stating that any member of the universe either is or is not a member of a given set.)

The quote presents another means of creating sets - namely, taking elements so that grouping them can't lead to a contradiction allows one to create a set.

Another interpretation of the quote would be to take it as a definition of set. The definition is different from definition of set in the naive set theory, which does lead to contradiction. In other words, the sets in naive set theory are not sets in the sense the quote defines.

Furthermore, the quote provides a very poor definition or axiom, since verifying if something is a set would require checking if it leads to contradiction. You would have to define contradiction in some way that one can check within the axiomatic system one is using. How would one do this so that one can still prove that e.g. finite unions of sets are still sets, or that power sets of sets are sets?
What does it mean to "use" logic? To reason in accordance with it? Is it evident we use classical logic? Is all our reasoning even formalisable as logical inference? Certainly not. Think about any reasoning that involves likely but uncertain events. This doesn't necessarily admit of an obvious translation into a simple logical framework. More esoterically, there are sentences which are "un-first-order-isable". That is, grammatical, meaningful English sentences that can't be formalised in a first-order logic. That is, you need to quantify over predicates to make them amenable to formalisation.

The upshot of this is that it probably isn't possible to consistently use logic in everyday situations, whatever logic you use.

So perhaps the question should really be: Can you replace classical logic in everyday reasoning with intuitionistic reasoning? Rephrasing: can every everyday use of classical logic be replaced with intuitionistic logic?

And the answer there is: "of course not!". Think about all the times you do reason by using excluded middle. None of these inferences will work in intuitionistic logic.
I know nothing about the Tao Te Ching, but the sentences you quote are not (logically) contradictory, or paradoxical:


  The Tao that can be trodden is not the enduring and unchanging Tao.


Nothing paradoxical here, is there? Maybe the only enduring and unchanging Tao is one that people is prevented from trodding -- so as to avoid wear from all that trodding, and stay unchanged, say.

Suppose we introduce the following notation:

T: stands for the property of being a Tao
EU: stands for the property of being enduring and unchanging
R: stands for the property of being susceptible of being trodden

then your sentence can be rendered thus:


  For all x, (Tx ^ Rx -> ~ EUx)


This is classical logic at its simplest.

[EDIT: As Mozibur suggests, one might want to argue that a path is, necessarily, susceptible of being trodden. I am not sure about that: consider a path inside a flooded mine, for instance. Anyway, if paths are to be practicable of necessity, then there is a contradiction in that sentence.]




  The name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name.


Suppose that all names can be named. (Just like, for example, "Schiphol" is a name of my name.) If so, no name is enduring and unchanging. No paradox here either.

On the other hand, maybe there is an enduring and unchanging name, and that name has no name. This is semantically implausible, but not paradoxical.

Anyway, introducing the notation:

Nxy: stands for the relation of x being a name of y

We can say that a is a name iff there is an y such that Nay, and your second sentence can be rendered thus:


  for all x (there is a y (Nxy) -> [there is z(Nzx) -> ~EUx])


Again classical, consistent logic.
Here's one way to look at it that might be of interest.  I'm not sure that it'll be satisfying in getting to grips with the difference between objects "in the mind" and "material" things, but it is one philosophical explanation for why we might take statements such as "1+1=2" to be in some sense true independently of the way the observable world is perceived to be.

The philosopher http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/frege/ Gottlob Frege proposed that we understood the world in terms of objects, which are the things that we name and identify using singular terms, and concepts, which are ways in which we split the world up to apply general or descriptive terms to those names, and get either Truth or Falsity for each object we want to apply it to.  For instance, in order for the sentence "Jim is a boy" to be true, we need there to be a thing in the world that "Jim" refers to, and we also need to have some concept of "being a boy" that does, in fact, take that object to True (This is similar to the ideas in Plato and Aristotle that describe properties like being a boy in terms of metaphysical things called Forms or Universals, but let's follow Frege and just think about a concept as a logical notion, or something that lets us take objects to True or False)

Abstractions are objects that we take to exist because they can be identified in terms of the concepts that we can use.  For example, Frege tries to give an example of what it means to be a Direction:  


  The direction of a line A is the same as the direction of some other line B if and only if A and B are Parallel Lines.


The idea is that because there is a relational concept of what it takes for two lines to be parallel (and also for them to not be parallel), and that the relation is an Equivalence (such that you can split all the lines up into distinct "parallel line" groups), we get the concept of something being a direction as safely understandable relative to that concept.  As a result, then, we could explain that the objects corresponding to the different directions existed simply because of the concept of being a parallel line - our Abstractions are what they are simply because of how we come to meaningfully split the world up!  This makes our knowledge of abstractions "Analytic" - we have knowledge about what they are simply in virtue of meaning, and observations about the direct, material world don't make any difference to how they are.

One of the problems that Frege had with this idea, though, was that while it explained how we could have concepts that could identify abstract objects, it didn't quite make clear why we were supposed to think that these abstract objects were different from any of the other objects that we already had.  The direction of a straight line in a co-ordinate space that passed through both (0,0) and (1,1), clearly differed from the direction of another line passing through (1,0) and (0,1); but was the direction of either straight line different to, say, the Roman Emperor Julius Caesar?  They're clearly supposed to be, but unless we specify otherwise, it is entirely possible that we could plug Julius into the new concept and get something true out.  This shows that just explaining why directions are different from each other isn't quite enough to explain how they are what they are only because of the meaning of general terms.

Frege tried to fix this problem by instead appealing to a more mathematically detailed account of how we could create specific abstractions for sets of objects from an understanding of each concept, but Bertrand Russell demonstrated that Frege's own plan made the system inconsistent in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russell%27s_paradox Russell's Paradox.

There are still people who think that Frege's basic idea, often called Logicism, can be made to work by explaining how Abstractions can be made to pick out unique objects, without running into problems like Russell's paradox, and there are many others who don't.  There are some good links available on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logicism the Wikipedia page for Logicism if you're keen to read further.
I don't see that Heraclitean metaphysics denies the possibility of knowledge; as you point out, it requires that knowledge be time-dependent, but this is not an insurmountable obstacle.

I think that it may be instructive, in this regard, to look at the various schools of Buddhist epistemology, which are similarly built upon a premise of the impermanence (indeed, momentariness) of all phenomena. Mark Siderits has a chapter on this in his Buddhism as Philosophy: An Introduction, and for a fuller account, one could turn to Dan Arnold's Buddhists, Brahmins, and Belief or any of the voluminous secondary literature on Dharmakīrti.
In the first form, The second premise doesn't necessarily mean that John shot James. He may just had a gun for some other reason. You can see this by translating this argument as:

Suppose, S = John shot James; G = John had a gun.

The first form of argument is incorrect because you cannot draw any conclusion.

1. S ⊃ G
2. G
∴ No conclusion. 

The second form of argument is correct.

1. S ⊃ G
2. S
∴ G {from 1 and 2; Using http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modus_ponens modus ponens}
You've actually (perhaps unintentionally) asked a controversial question in the philosophy of logic.  I don't think it's been given a lot of attention on the Phil SE, but it has definitely been danced around.

The Explanation

Classically, the two statements are equivalent.  That's because in order for ~(x)Bx to be true, it is not the case that every x is B, which means there is some x that is not B, which means that (∃x)~Bx.  But what is the intuitive pull behind that middle equivalence?

It's actually best to go right down to the semantics of classical logic to explain this, so let's do that.  In a classical model in logic, we have a collection of objects called a Domain.  When we use the universal quantifier in (x)Px, what we are doing on the classical account is we're saying "any object in the domain, c, is such that Pc".

On this understanding, we assume that, in the language we're using to make statements like "every x is P" (as opposed to statements in our logical language like (x)Px), we have the resources we need to go through the objects of the domain and confirm that, indeed, all of them are P.  (and this seems like not a major problem, since we're restricting ourselves to talking about things in a Domain, rather than talking about "everything there is" or something like that.)  We also, when push comes to shove, have the resources we need to say, of any of those objects, when they are not P.  And, of course, we know that any object either is P or is not P.

So.  The interpretation of why the two statements are equivalent comes together.  It's because universal claims (x)Px come out as true if, and only if, all of the objects in the domain are P.  In our language where everything in the domain either is or is not P, we can tell that when not all of the objects in the domain are P (i.e. ~(x)Px is true), that must be because at least one of them is not P (for some c in the domain, ~P(c)).  And once we've established that, then we've established all we need to make (∃x)~Bx true.

The theory of classical models of logic is probably not suited to a first course in logic, but Ch.s 9-10 of Boolos, Burgess and Jeffrey's http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0521701465 Computability and Logic is recognised as a good overview for an intermediate-undergraduate-level audience interested in delving into the rabbit-hole of metalogic.  It should be available in most universities with a mathematical logic course, and I've seen it in quite a few public libraries too.

The Problem

But you're absolutely right that the latter proposition seems to have an existential commitment, where all we've done is negate a universally quantified proposition.  It often seems natural to us to say that we have demonstrated that something is not universally the case without wanting to say that we have demonstrated that there is something for which the converse holds.

Constructivists in the philosophy of mathematics will want to say that this is because there is more at stake in the existential quantifier than working within an accepted domain of objects, all of which behave perfectly classically and can be safely referred to and individuated.  For a constructivist, when you want to logically assert that there is something that is P, you not only make a statement about an object abstractly, but commit yourself to being able to go out and actually present the object somehow.

To explain this a little further, let's try out a mathematical technique of proving that something exists by contradiction (thanks to the wiki article on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructive_proof Constructive Proof for this one).

I assert that "There exist irrational numbers a and b such that a^b is rational."  In defense of this claim, I ask you to consider the number √2^√2.  Either it is rational or it is irrational.  If it's rational, the assertion is true.  If it's irrational, however, then let that be the first irrational number a and let √2 be the second b.  (√2^√2)^√2 = 2.  So in this case, the assertion is also true, and therefore, it is always true.

You can then respond by asking me "Okay, so maybe there are such irrational numbers, but so far I'm not sure what values a and b should take for your statement to be true.  Can you tell me what they might be?".  And on the classical account, I am entirely within logical authority (and perhaps, if I don't know, obliged) to say "No, and I don't have to in order to have logically proven my claim."

The Constructivist will say that something is amiss wih the logic here.  For a constructivist piece of reasoning to count as valid, it must in principle be possible to be able to provide examples or algorithms that serve to verify any conclusions that are drawn.  This is a line that is quite common among verificationists or positivists, such as we find in abundance at the moment in a lot of popular science.  That classical mathematical logic finds itself at such odds with this intuitive way of looking at what Logic is supposed to do (perhaps to reveal a conservative and transparent account of the way the world is) is something that many people find a pill too difficult to swallow.

So don't worry if the classical way of thinking about logic doesn't seem natural or intuitive.  That's a recognised issue people have had with the classical idiom.  The trick to getting the feel for classical logic is understanding it in well-defined contexts and in the mathematical framework for its interpretation, which might be better thought of as the problem of presenting models of collections of objects and evaluating theories of inference concerning well-defined properties about them.  You can worry about where and when this kind of model is suitable for wider application once you understand how the classical standard one works.
Goodness, no. Don't ever rely on Wikipedia for accurate philosophy-related information. That said, I think everyone here would recommend plato.stanford.edu as a resource, but your current question's easy enough to answer.

Firstly, they are all different, but you're right in picking out the relationship between circular reasoning, tautologies, and (some) paradoxes. They are all similar in that they refer to themselves in some way. 

However, What makes them clearly different from one another is the nature of this reference.

Tautologies have the simplest relation. They are statements which must be true by virtue of what they say, such as "all unmarried men are bachelors", or "mortal creatures die." If you know the definition of the terms unmarried, men, and bachelors, or mortality and 'to die', then there is no further assessment you can make, and the statement is "trivially" true. We ought use the word "trivial" here because these statements contribute no new information.To assess the truth of these statements, I must must first consult the meanings of the terms used, but by acquiring the definition of the terms to evaluate the truth of the statement, I've already answered the question- so "that the statement is true" isn't itself even new information.

Circular reasoning, on the other hand, occurs when someone wants to prove that a thing is true, but assumes that it's true as a condition for their argument. It results in the nasty problem of having the truth of an argument's conclusions resting on only the results of the conclusions, instead of separate premises that can be independently verified. The classic example is Descartes, who claims 

1) He has "clear and distinct" ideas, and when ideas are clear and distinct, it means they cannot be doubted. 
2) Because he has a clear and distinct idea of God, thus God cannot be doubted.
3) Why does he know that clear and distinct ideas are true? Because they must be given by God, and God wouldn't lie.
4) Therefore, *clear and distinct ideas cannot be doubted.

And so the circle goes on...

Paradox, on the other hand, comes in different flavors. The word is used in a looser sense to indicate that there is a state of affairs other than we would expect, but this sense is not the one which is similar to the others. Self-referential paradoxes are the wicked creatures here. These kinds of paradoxes exist when an argument contradicts itself. Contradiction is simply one statement which makes another false. "All ravens are black" is contradicted by evidence of a white raven. So a paradox is similar to circular reasonin in that the result of an argument has an impact on the truth of one of the premises, but this impact is negative instead of affirmative. Typical examples of this are "I am a Creatn, and all Cretans always lie." If the statement is true, then it must be that the person saying it is lying. If it is the case that the statement is a lie, and false, then the speaker is telling the truth. 

"Dialectical" is in a different category altogether. It's not a descriptive term about an argument's validity, but instead is a method for argumentation- one that involves a back-and-forth conversation of challenges and counterchallenges to a claim or statement, with the goal of arriving at or approaching the truth of or refinement of the claim being made. Just read anything by Plato to see how it's done, but I would specifically endorse reading Meno for an xplicit use of the method in teaching and learning.

For more information on how to separate these things, try Baggini's "The Philosopher's Toolkit", or Schaum's Outlines - the one on Elementary Logic (workbook). All of these terms are defined in fill and far more clearly than I can hope to on SE. I hope I've made their differences a little clearer, though.
Causality as @glebovg states is a very basic understanding of the relation between two objects and the event which takes place based on the interaction. Because you have posted in Philosophy channel i am not sure you do not want the deterministic answer.

Personally i think the more interesting area of causality is found in Psychology 

"investigating how people and non-human animals detect or infer causation from sensory information, prior experience and innate knowledge."

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causality#Counterfactual_theories http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causality#Counterfactual_theories

Aristotle started it all with the 4 causes. The material cause,the formal cause,the efficient cause and the final cause

This leads down a very interesting rabbit hole in the synchronicity of consciousness and the collective interactions of humans. What is priority in cause. For instance, we all make decisions in our lives and a lot of decisions we know will have a major effect negative or positive. Yet some actions seem minor yet they too have major consequential effects. These effects are all interlaced with and determined in priority to connections we have made to other objects ( living or non living - as is our current understanding in our collective attribution to the warming of this planet, yet we all as a collective continue even in the knowledge of our destructive nature ). This can then lead to perception illusions and the drawings of MC Escher ... if you let it. Mergers into a fringe science,  which is always more interesting it seems.
http://www.youaretrulyloved.com/enlightenment/the-illusion-of-causality/ http://www.youaretrulyloved.com/enlightenment/the-illusion-of-causality/

Tie these ideas on a time spectrum and dare to introduce the uncertainty principle. This like LSD for people who like to learn.

You however did ask the question in a very deterministic manner, and if you are looking for the scientific interpretation you might want to try the Physics channel http://physics.stackexchange.com http://physics.stackexchange.com

  Since R's 'objecthood' is primary, why doesn't it make sense to say that R can neither have the attributes is a member of R nor not-is a member of R correctly attributed to it? If this is the case then Russell's Paradox is dissolved, since it is the assumption that R must satisfy either is a member of R or not-'is a member of R that seemingly gets us into the paradox to begin with.


If I understand your question correctly, you don't want to declare these membership relations to be http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6del%27s_incompleteness_theorem#Meaning_of_the_first_incompleteness_theorem undecidable statements (as the other answers seem to interpret your question); you want to restrict the collection R not to have a set membership relation. 

Good news, you just discovered proper classes!

Leaving aside the remark about Cantor's "objecthood", which I could't really follow, your intuition leads you in the right direction.

Let's analyse the situation: 

R = { x : x ∉ x } yielding R ∉ R ⇔ R ∈ R could be obtained in set theory because an informal http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axiom_schema_of_specification#Unrestricted_comprehension unrestricted comprehension principle was being used. Hence, the problem can be dealt with by carefully restricting the comprehension principle. That's exactly how it's being done in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZFC contemporary set theory, using an http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axiom_schema_of_specification axiom schema of restricted comprehension. The result is that ZFC doesn't allow to define R, or, to state it more exactly, R can be defined as a reductio ad absurdum to prove that the "set of all sets" doesn't exist, i.e. assuming its existence leads to the contradiction described by Russell's paradox.

The salient point, however, is that what the proof really tells us is that the set of all sets cannot be a set. In fact, Russell's paradox, as well as http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cantor's_paradox Cantor's paradox and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burali-Forti_paradox Burali-Forti paradox all tell us simply that some collections, like "the set of all sets" are not sets. The father of set theory, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georg_Cantor Georg Cantor, thought of these collections, which he called "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absolute_Infinite absolute infinities" as beyond the reach of mathematics and went mystical about them. As it turns out, this evaluation was too pessimistic. The kind of collections which Cantor called "absolute infinities" are known today as http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_(set_theory) proper classes. (You may consult additionally this http://planetmath.org/Class.html brief introduction).

Simply put, the concept of class can be introduced this way: 


  A class x is a set iff there is a class y such that x ∈ y. A class which is not a set is said to be a proper class. 


Now, suppose that R ∉ R. If you suppose that R is a set, you get a contradiction, so R must be a proper class. 

In ZFC we can talk about proper classes only informally. However, there are alternative foundational systems, known also as class theories, which - surprise! - allow to treat proper classes formally beside sets. The most "explicit" of these systems is http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morse%E2%80%93Kelley_set_theory Morse–Kelley set theory, which admits proper classes as basic object alongside with sets. But there are http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/settheory-alternative/ many other approaches.



See also:


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Set_of_all_sets Set of all sets
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_set Universal set
https://math.stackexchange.com/search?q=%22proper+class%22&submit=search "proper classes" questions over at math.sx


Some notable proper classes:


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructible_universe Constructible universe
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Neumann_universe Von Neumann universe

Although the OP pointed to Plato and the notion of subconscious in particular, it may be interesting to know that Freudian theory has some interesting precursors in hellenistic philosophy - to which Freud himself refers in his work, concerning his theory of dreams. 

In his The Interpretation of Dreams (1913, Ch. 3) Freud writes:


  I am far from wishing to assert that no previous writer has ever thought of tracing a dream to a wish. […] Those who put store by such hints will find that even in antiquity the physician http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herophilos Herophilos, who lived under the First Ptolemy, distinguished between three kinds of dreams. […]


After having presented the three different kinds, Freud continues:


  The unscientific world, therefore, has always endeavoured to interpret dreams, and by applying one or the other of two essentially different methods. The first […] is symbolic dream-interpretation […]. The second […] might be described as the cipher method. […] An interesting variant of this cipher procedure […] is presented in the work on dream-interpretation by http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artemidorus Artemidoros of Daldis.
  
  The worthlessness of both these popular methods of interpretation does not admit of discussion […]. So that one might be tempted to grant the contention of the philosophers and psychiatrists, and to dismiss the problem of dream-interpretation as altogether fanciful.
  
  I have, however, come to think differently. I have been forced to perceive that here, once more, we have one of those not infrequent cases where an ancient and stubbornly retained popular belief seems to have come nearer to the truth of the matter than the opinion of modern science.


In a previous footnote in Ch. 2, he writes: 


  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artemidorus Artemidoros of Daldis […] left us the fullest and most careful work of the Greco-Roman world on the interpretation of dreams.




Note: The connection, as well as the quotations, can be found in Ch. 7.3 "The Theory of Dreams" of Lucio Russo, http://books.google.at/books?id=MOTpnfz7ZuYC The Forgotten Revolution, Springer 2004, p. 214-218. (A great if controversial book)

Additional discussion of and material about the link Artemidoros-Freud can be found in:


Price, "The future of dreams: From Freud to Artemidoros", in: Before Sexuality: The Contruction of Erotic Experience in the Ancient Greek World, CUP 1990.
Chapter 12: "Artemidoros, Interpretation of Dreams", in: The Interpretation of Dreams & Portents in Antiquity, Bolchazy-Carducci 1976, pp. 53-74.

This is probably a misunderstanding. In German, "transcendent" and "transcendental" are not the same. Kant's philosophy is transcendental, not transcendent. In German, this really makes a difference. Transcendent philosophy is what Kant criticises, i.e. empty talk about things we can't know because they're beyond our reason. His philosophy, on the other hand, isn't - transcendental means "grounding the possibility of knowledge and experience a priori".

Other than that, I'd say there is no point in dividing a concept so old into philosophy and theology - a book I have here (it's in German, otherwise I would quote) says it's been used in ancient Greece and later by St. Augustine, who used it in the context of knowledge, to mark the ascent from one level of knowledge to a higher one. This probably makes it both, a concept theological and philosophical.
While the philosophy of religion is a sub-field of philosophy, the issue you are referring probably fits better under psychology. In psychology there is a whole area devoted to http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12674816 religion, spirituality, and health, and even though your question does not necessarily involve health, it's specifically about intervention which is at the heart of much of the research. In particular, there are numerous studies which try to claim that there is scientifically verifiable evidence as to the existence of God's intervention, as instigated through means such as intercessory prayer (this is, incidentally, one of the areas I studied and wrote a thesis on in college).

The crux of the issue is the lack of a plausible causal mechanism if intervention is actually occurring. There is also the issue of a mixed agenda from a number of religious scientists who want to prove the existence of God (I've read both Christian and Islamic scientists who seem to have such an agenda), however from reading their papers it seems that they generally do not realize that even if a significant effect of intercessory prayer on health outcomes was found and could be easily manipulated on a consistent basis, at best this would prove that there is some as of yet unknown mechanism (not even necessarily sentient) that mediates personal wishes for others. In no way would any particular religion or deity be affirmed, much less the content of their respective religious texts. And even if it somehow did prove a deity existed, Andrade & Radhakrishnan (2009) remind us of a sobering fact: if research proves a link between intercessory prayer and health outcomes, doesn't that suggest that Gods ways can be manipulated or his behavior made statistically predictable? I'm not sure that's a claim the religious would want to uphold.

I think the above explanations should sufficiently answer and address the issues in the hypothetical you set up in your question. As for your over-arching (title) question, "Does God intervene in our lives?", ignoring the implicit assumption that God exists, science says "We have no evidence for it so we presume not until proven otherwise," but you can feel free to search through the academic literature for yourself, as some (very few) people seem to be convinced that we do have enough evidence. With regard to intercessory prayer in particular, I can give several paper references as a starting point. You may, however, be interested in looking at other types of intervention as well.

Andrade, C., & Radhakrishnan, R. (2009). Prayer and healing: A medical and scientific perspective on randomized controlled trials. Indian Journal of Psychiatry, 51(4), 247-253. 
Benson, H., Dusek, J.,  Sherwood, J., Lam, P., Bethea, C., Carpenter, W., Levitsky, S., Hill, P., Clem, D., Jain, M., Drumel, D., Kopecky, S., Mueller, P., Marek, D., Rollins, S., & Hibberd, P. (2006). Study of the therapeutic effects of intercessory prayer (STEP) in cardiac bypass patients: A multicenter randomized trial of uncertainty and certainty of receiving intercessory prayer. American Heart Journal, 151(4), 934-942.
Breslin, M. J., & Lewis, C. A. (2008). Theoretical models of the nature of prayer and health: A review. Mental Health, Religion & Culture, 11(1), 9-21.
Byrd, R. (1988). Positive therapeutic effects of intercessory prayer in a coronary care unit population. Southern Medical Journal, 81(7), 826-829. 
Dorn, J. M. (2006). Intercessory Prayer. American Heart Journal, 152(3), e25.
Galton, F. (1872). Statistical inquiries into the efficacy of prayer. The Fortnightly Review, 68, 125-135.
Harris, W., Gowda, M., Kolb, J., Strychacz, C., Vacek, J., Jones, P., Forker, A., O'Keefe, J., & McCallister, B. (1999). A randomized, controlled trial of the effects of remote, intercessory prayer on outcomes in patients admitted to the coronary care unit. Archives of Internal Medicine, 46(1), 1878, 2273-2278.
Hodge, D. R. (2007). A systematic review of the empirical literature on intercessory prayer. Research on Social Work Practice, 17, 174-187.
Howard, G., Hill, T., Maxwell, S, Baptista, T. M., Farias, M., Coelho, C., Coulter-Kern, M., Coulter-Kern, R. (2009). What’s wrong with research literatures? And how to make them right. Review of General Psychology, 13(2), 146-166.
Hunt, D. (2000). Remote, intercessory prayer reduced the frequency of adverse events in patients newly admitted to the coronary care unit. Evidence-based Cardiovascular Medicine, 4, 48.
Ikedo, F., Gangahar, D., Quader, M., & Smith, L. (2007). The effects of prayer, relaxation technique during general anesthesia on recovery outcomes following cardiac surgery. Complementary Therapies in Clinical Practice, 13, 85-94. 
Joyce, C., Welldon, R. (1965). The objective efficacy of prayer: A double-blind clinical trial. Journal of Chronic Diseases, 18, 367-377. 
Karis, R., & Karis, D. (2000). Intercessory Prayer. Archives of Internal Medicine, 160, 1870.
Krucoff, M., Crater, S., Gallup, D., Blankenship, J., Cuffe, M., Guameri, M., Krieger, R., Kshettry, V., Morris, K., Oz, M., Pichard, A., Sketch, M., Koenig, H., Mark, D., & Lee, K. (2005). Positive music, imagery, touch, and prayer as adjuncts to interventional cardiac care: The monitoring and actualisation of noetic trainings (MANTRA) II randomized study. The Lancet, 366, 211-217.
Krucoff, M., Crater, S., Green, C., Maas, A., Seskevich, J., Lane, J., Loeffler, K., Morris, K., Bashore, T., & Koenig, H. (2001). Integrative noetic therapies as adjuncts to percutaneous intervention during unstable coronary syndromes: Monitoring and actualization of noetic training (MANTRA) feasibility pilot. American Heart Journal, 142, 760-767. 
Krucoff, M., Crater, S., Lee, K. (2005). From efficacy to safety concerns: A STEP forward or a step back for clinical research and intercessory prayer?: The study of therapeutic effects of intercessory prayer (STEP). American Heart Journal, 151(4), 762-764.
Leibovici, L. (2001). Effects of remote, retroactive intercessory prayer on outcomes in patients with bloodstream infection: randomised controlled trial. British Medical Journal, 323, 1450-1451.
Lesniak, K. T. (2006). The effect of intercessory prayer on wound healing in nonhuman primates. Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine. 12(6), 42-48.
Lewis, C. A., Breslin, M. J., & Dein, S. (2008). Prayer and mental health: An introduction to this special issue of mental health, religion & culture. Mental Health, Religion & Culture, 11(1), 1-7.
Marks, L. D. (2008). Prayer and marital intervention: Asking for divine help... or professional trouble? Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology, 27(7), 678-685.
Masters, K. (2005). Research on the healing power of distant intercessory prayer: Disconnect between science and faith. Journal of Psychology and Theology, 33(4), 268-277.
Masters, K., Spielmans, G., & Goodson, J. (2006). Are there demonstrable effects of distant intercessory prayer? A meta-analytic review. Annals of Behavioral Medicine, 32(1), 21-26.
McCullough, M. E., & Larson, D. B. (1999). Prayer. In W. R. Miller (Ed.), Integrating spirituality into treatment: Resources for practitioners (pp. 85-110). Washington, D.C.: American Psychological Association.
Olver, I., & Whitford, H. (2009). Intercessory prayer improves spiritual wellbeing  in a randomised controlled trial in patients with cancer. European Journal of Cancer Supplements, 7(2), 176.
Palmer, R., Katerndahl, D., & Morgan-Kidd, J. (2004). Lifetime a randomized trial of the effects of remote intercessory prayer: Interactions with personal beliefs on problem-specific outcomes and functional status. The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 10(3), 438-448.
Price, J. (2000). Does prayer really set one apart? Archives of Internal Medicine, 160, 1873.
O'Mathuna, D. P. (2004). Commentary. Focus on Alternative and Complementary Therapies, 9(4), 315-316.
Sandweiss, D. (2000). P value out of control. Archives of Internal Medicine, 160, 1872.
Sicher, F., Targ, E., Moore II, D., Smith, H. (1998). A randomized double-blind study of the effect of distant healing in a population with advanced AIDS: Report of a small study scale. Western Journal of Medicine, 169(6), 356-363.
Sloan, R. P., & Bagiella, E. (2000). Data without a prayer. Archives of Internal Medicine, 160, 1870.
Van der Does, W. A randomized, controlled trial of prayer? Archives of Internal Medicine, 160, 1871.
Walker, S., Tonigan, J., Miller, W., Comer, S., & Kahlich, L. (2009). Intercessory prayer in the treatment of alcohol abuse and dependence: A pilot investigation. Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine, 3(6), 79-86. 

Two statements are said to be contradictory if for both statements, the truth of one implies the falsity of the other.

Two statements are said to be contrary if they can both be false, but they cannot both be true.

(I know you used the word "inconsistent" instead of "contradictory", but the latter seems to be the more conventional choice. They're synonymous here though, so take your pick.)

The point you seem to have overlooked about contradictory pairs is that they cannot both be false either.
Hinduism should be considered a loose collection of religions who have certain family resemblances; rather than say something like Christianity which has a God, Jesus and the Bible in common despite the many theological differences between varying divisions.

There is a polytheistic side to Hinduism and a monotheistic side to it to - which is best displayed in the Upanishads, and was revived in Bengal as the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brahmo_Samaj Brahmo Samaj when India was under British rule - one could argue it was the imported Christianity that reawakened this idea in Bengal.

Brahman is described in the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isha_Upanishad Isha Upanishad


  unembodied, omniscient, beyond reproach, without veins, pure and uncontaminated..., [one who] moves and does not move...far away, but very near as well...although fixed in His abode is swifter than the mind...For the enlightened one all that exists is nothing but the Self


A certain position says that the gods themselves are simply a certain particularity of the universal Brahman; each god has many avatars. They are a material, and personal manifestation of the immaterial and impersonal Brahman.

Different philosophical schools explain Brahman differently. The gods & their avatars have a complex mythology and philosophy. One example will have to suffice:

Vishnu is the preserver; Shiva the destroyer and Brahma the creator. One may wish to consider the parallels between this and Hegels dialectical triad: thesis, anti-thesis and synthesis. His triad drives the world-mind. The Hindu triad does likewise for the world itself. 
No, they aren't.

http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-temporal/ Temporal Logic

http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-paraconsistent/ Paraconsistent Logic

The most popular temporal logics are modal logics. Certain applications might make marrying the two natural (see, e.g., http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1971701 this abstract), but nothing about temporal logic requires paraconsistency.

  The question: is there a significant geometric form of these logics?


Here, "these logics" refers to Boolean algebras, Heyting algebras and modal algebra. The various representation theorems for these algebras as set-algebras related to certain topological spaces seem to provide a positive answer to this question. These representation theorems are non-trivial, since they are equivalent to the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boolean_prime_ideal_theorem Boolean prime ideal theorem, which cannot be derived from the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory without the axiom of choice.



It is well known that every Boolean algebra can be represented as the set-algebra of clopen sets of its associated Stone space.



There are multiple closely related representation theorems for Heyting algebras. First note that a Heyting algebra is bounded and distributive as a lattice, and every bounded distributive lattice can be represented as the set-algebra of clopen upper sets of its associated Priestley space. In case of a Heyting algebra, this associated Priestley space is an http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esakia_space Esakai space, which is a Priestley space for which the downward closure of each clopen set is clopen. There are also representation theorems for bounded distributive lattices and Heyting algebras using pairwise Stone spaces instead of Priestley spaces, and representation theorems using spectral spaces.



The wikipedia article on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modal_algebra modal algebras says


  Stone's representation theorem can be generalized to the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_frame#J.C3.B3nsson.E2.80.93Tarski_duality Jónsson–Tarski duality, which ensures that each modal algebra can be represented as the algebra of admissible sets in a modal general frame.


I haven't tried to understand this in detail, but some wikipedia authors apparently believe that this is a geometric representation:


  The general frame semantics combines the main virtues of Kripke semantics and algebraic semantics: it shares the transparent geometrical insight of the former, and robust completeness of the latter.

You can prove it indirectly as follows (if steps (5) and (8) are acceptable to you, of course). 

1 Suppose, for contradiction that: ¬((A → B) ∨ (B → C))

2 Push the negation in with De Morgan: ¬(A → B) ∧ ¬(B → C)

3 ¬(A → B) by conjunction-elimination from (2)

4 ¬(B → C) by conjunction-elimination from (2)

5 ¬(¬A ∨ B) by the meaning of material conditional from (3)

6 (A ∧ ¬B) by De Morgan from (5)

7 ¬B by conjunction-elimination from (6)

8 ¬(¬B ∨ C) by the meaning of material conditional from (4)

9 (B ∧ ¬C) by De Morgan from (8)

10 B by conjunction-elimination from (9)

11 ⊥ from (7) and (10)

Therefore, ¬¬((A → B) ∨ (B → C)) ≡ (A → B) ∨ (B → C).
In set theory, the distinction you are asking about translates to the question of whether the domain of a model must be a set, or whether it is allowed to be a proper class. This is an important distinction giving rise to many subtle issues. In many mathematical contexts, we are tempted to allow a structure whose domain is a proper class, and the question is whether this is a sensible thing to do.

The Gödel completeness theorem, for example, says that a first-order theory is consistent if and only if it has a model. In this theorem, one should take the meaning of "model" to be a model whose domain is a set. 

In a first-order structure whose domain is a proper class, we are not able in general in the usual ZFC axiomatization of set theory to undertake Tarski's recursive definition of truth, and it is not the case that every proper class model has a satisfaction predicate. 

For example, when Gödel proved the relative consistency of the axiom of choice over ZF, he built a proper class structure L called the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructible_universe constructible universe, and proved in ZF that every axiom of ZFC holds in L. But this is merely a theorem scheme, an assertion about each axiom of ZFC separately, and one cannot in general even formalize the assertion "L is a model of ZFC" as a single statement. 

This is part of the reason why the theorem is only a relative consistency result. Although Gödel built a model of ZFC, it was a proper class model, and this is not sufficient to prove the consistency of the theory, since the completeness theorem requires a set model of the theory. But if we have a set model of ZF, then we may construct L relative to that model, and thereby get a set model of ZFC. So what he proved is that if ZF is consistent, then so is ZFC. 

Meanwhile, many applications of category theory lead one to want to form proper class categories, such as the category of all groups or the category of all partial orders. Since one wants to undertake additional category-theoretic analysis on top of those categories, it leads to problematic issues similar to the Russell paradox. To prevent this issue, category theorists stratify the universe into levels, forming small categories and large ones in analogy with the set/class distinction in set theory. The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grothendieck_universe axiom of universes is a convenient way to assert that there are sufficient levels for most of this kind of analysis. This axiom is equivalent to the existence of a proper class of inaccessible cardinals, and is therefore a mild large cardinal axiom, a strong axiom of infinity.
You are not wrong in your general response. The word "positive" is not generally used this way by philosophers of science, and was rarely used that way even by most positivists. The positivists also did not think of it as requiring falsifiability. One could, following Popper, argue that claims which are substantive not only must be derived from observation statements but also must be falsifiable, but that requires some argumentation. It is, that is to say, not a point you get for free just by using the word "positive." It's also not the case that any claim which cannot be falsified is a normative claim. "Normative" generally means "involving evaluation or prescription." One could go further, but certainly a tautology like "I am under arrest or not under arrest," is not falsifiable, and also descriptive, rather than normative.

One clarification: positivists also did not think of positive statements as "pointing to an objective reality." Positivists deny the meaningfulness of talk about objective reality over and above what is contained in observation sentences or other "positive sentences."

My speculation about your interlocutor is that he has read some of AJ Ayer's Language, Truth, and Logic and his attack on the cognitive-meaningfulness of normative statements like "stealing is wrong." But even from that position the inverse does not follow, that all unfalsifiable statements are normative.
This question, on the surface, is more about language than philosophy, although I think it does have philosophical implications deeper down.

I would say you are correct.  Things must be linked in order to be opposed.  When we characterize two things as opposites, we mean they are contrasting modes of a single phenomenon.

There are some very significant philosophies based on the concept of opposition.  The largely defunct, but still influential Zoroastrianism revolved around the opposition between "good" and "evil", while Taoism is all about the dynamic union between opposing qualities such as male and female, hot and cold, light and dark, and so forth.
A nice little book on this is "Scientific Method in Practice" by Hugh Gauch. He discusses the critical role of presuppositions in science. He also gives a nice overview of the Science Wars, which, among other things, made heavy use of the idea that science, like all other disciplines, requires presuppositions.

In regards to your question, Gauch gives what I think is the most fundamental presupposition/axiom of science, indeed, in all of rational inquiry:

The world is objective, orderly, and comprehensible

Some unpacking of defintions:

objective - this is bascially a statement of realism. Science presumes there is a single world "out there", independent of perspective or state of perception.

order - in the sense that there is a pattern to existence. It does not imply determinism, merely that there is some order imposed on the universe. E.g., the wave function itself is VERY ordered and puts rather precise restrictions on an experiment. However, it does not determine the outcome, in as much as there are a multitude of possiblities.

comprehensible - Humans have access (albeit imperfectly) to the objective world and have the ability to make reliable conclusions about it.
Conjectures are based on expert intuition, but the expert or experts are not [hopefully yet] able to turn that intuition into a deduction from axioms to theorem. Sometimes much is predicated on conjectures; for example, modern public key cryptography is based on the conjecture that http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_factor#Cryptographic_Applications prime factoring is a prohibitively computationally expensive operation. If this conjecture is false, the global financial system could be dealt a huge blow by a genius—not to mention other infrastructure which is hooked up to accessible networks and protected by encryption vulnerable to prime factoring.

By definition, axioms are givens and not proved. Consider: a proof reasons from things you believe to statements that 'flow from' those beliefs. If you don't believe anything, you can't prove anything1. So you've got to start somewhere—you've got to accept some axioms that cannot be proved within whatever formal system you're currently using. This is argued by the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M%C3%BCnchhausen_trilemma Münchhausen trilemma (https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/7325/why-is-the-munchhausen-trilemma-an-unsolved-problem Phil.SE Q). So, I argue that the best we can do is find facts which are true, as defined by https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/8053/what-is-the-difference-between-fact-and-truth/8495#8495 my answer to https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/8053/what-is-the-difference-between-fact-and-truth What is the difference between Fact and Truth?

1 more formally: If you won't start from any axioms, you cannot prove any theorems, for the laws of logic do not allow you to construct something out of nothing.
Theologians of course try to restrict god's power in such paradoxes, by saying that his power is thorough possibilities not impossibles!(Although not treating such modal assertions exactly!!)
But they never think that such a restriction results even terrible problems for god; Probably worse than his limited power. 
Although,i myself think that the problem of existence of god is far more complicated than most people might think.I'm not talking about whether hi exists or not; I'm talking about the concept of "Existence" for something beyond matter... Such a conception is maybe based on an unskillful extension of the concept of "Existence" in the level of matter!... 
I sometimes think of philosophy as the first step in the scientific endeavors: the forming of hypotheses (doubting)

The proposition the sun will rise tomorrow is one for which proof can be added within the scientific paradigm.

However, as un-intelligent as it may seem in certain contexts, (what is usually labelled as) philosophical doubt is broader than the forming of scientifically theory. The scientific doubt is not yet a scientifically proven statement, since rigorous validation of hypotheses should be added; even though good scientists are of course aware of the always lurking uncertainty, and would of course incorporate any evidence for the contrary. Even a scientist can think of many ways in which the sun could be destroyed or blocked from our view, etc...; however, for the moment there is no evidence to confirm such an hypothesis.

The extreme doubt reveals a severe ideal of knowledge...

A way to counter this argument could be to ask the stater of the proposition you mentioned in your question (I can not know): What exactly do you mean by knowledge then?

Since the person asking the question could be conceived as a lunatic: his definition of knowledge might be so strict, or perhaps so non-existing, or non-findable; that his own model of knowledge can certainly be put into question (see many examples in the history of philosophy: perhaps to start with Parmenides). These ideals of knowledge say something about our wish for stability, and can function as an ideal; but they can be interpreted in very un-sensible ways.

...which can be coupled with mental diseases. Its possible positive functionality depends on various factors, and what one does with the initial mysterious.

It is also very conceivable that such a man is indeed very ignorant, so then this would be an accurate proposition. There are many diseases which make man unable to think properly or hallucinate. Some human beings are born without indeed ever understanding the temporal repetitive orbits of the earth relative to the sun.

Further more, at some point in time, many children or adults discovering philosophical fundamental questions might discover the possibility to ask themselves these questions, or to doubt about normally firmly likely propositions. I hope myself that people can nevertheless eventually conquer this doubt in a healthy and vigorous way.

These questions can even make man so uncomfortable with their world-view, certainly when this doubt remains very prominently for a very long time, that this might in some cases be coupled with severe mental problems, which should be taken seriously; in those cases.

But then again: this highly depends on the personal interpretation, context and magnitude of the doubt. Doubt can also be conceived of as an healthy asset, when it is not overwhelming, at least not about such propositions for which there is no evidence available. The best thing they can lead to, is to doubt about more dubious propositions. Generally, the doubt often can incite (or show) an important wish to actively prove, since they are coupled with the amazing aspect of human life: the mysterious.
You could certainly ask the question, but would it be meaningful?  It's hard to think of any case this would apply to other than your example, since it would take a godlike being in order to create something like "existence". 

However, what if we aren't as strict in terms of the concept of A "creating" B?

Let's say A is Thomas Edison, and B is the quality of being well illuminated, electrically.  Just because Edison invented electric lighting, doesn't mean he can't also use it.

Or, suppose I'm a pop-culture tastemaker and I invent the concept of "funkicool".  There's no reason I couldn't also exemplify "funkicoolness".

On the other hand, if I'm a writer and I write a book about a planet where everyone is either "Alpha-neutral" or "Alpha-polarized", it might not make sense to ask if I, the writer, exhibit Alpha neutrality or not, because the concept only exists within my made up world, it doesn't mean anything at my own level of reality.

In the specific case of your example, if we take it as a given that God created existence, the concept of "creation" already implies the existence of the creator, therefore it doesn't make sense to ask the question, but not for the reasons you suggest.
Aristotle addresses roughly the same question (sans the contemporary mathematicization) in explaining why he does not think Utilitarian in right in the Nicomachean Ethics. (Of course I use the term Utilitarian here loosely).

The basic answer is that in maximizing our well-being (trying to achieve eudaimonea) there are parts to the puzzle. First, there is the goal that I am bothering to pursue. Second, there is my pursuit of it. According to Aristotle, we all pursue happiness (eudaimonia) a thesis that will go unchallenged until past the time of Kant. The genius of Aristotle's answer is that he maintains that we pursue what we think will make us happy. The problem is that we can be deeply deceived about this question.

In your question, the idea that we are mistaken about a risk-reward calculation would for Aristotle demonstrate a lack of phronesis (practical wisdom). In other words, it would mean that we are making a bad particular judgment. Despite how it may appear, the localized version falls under the second question which is my means of pursuing of happiness. My miscalculation refers to what I think will get me eudaimonia. This problem can then repeat itself on the larger scale if one's entire idea of what is good is mistaken.

On Aristotle's picture, the more you lack wisdom the poorer both your choices and your idea of what is good to have are. Thus, lack of practical wisdom can compound itself. Interestingly, you can encourage yourself to be wrong because you take pleasure in things that are not able to ultimately give you eudaimonia. For instance, the pursuit of raw pleasure might encourage you to pursue crack cocaine and then this experience might be such that you begin identifying it with the good you want in life thus distorting your idea of the good life and making your judgments increasingly bad.

Referencing his view to the language you are using, the utility function can be wrong (= having the wrong vision) OR one's risk aversion can cause one to err greatly ( = failure to pursue the right things vis-a-vis your vision). 
Other parts of the SEP holds at least some keys to your question:


  Her name has been invoked by a number of critics of the liberal tradition... There are many strands of Arendt's thought that could justify such a claim, in particular, her critique of representative democracy, her stress on civic engagement and political deliberation, her separation of morality from politics, and her praise of the revolutionary tradition. 


and hence her celebration of


  the American Revolution, because there the act of foundation took the form of a constitution of liberty. Her other examples are the revolutionary clubs of the French Revolution, the Paris Commune of 1871, the creation of Soviets during the Russian Revolution, the French Resistance to Hitler in the Second World War, and the Hungarian revolt of 1956.


Further, she calls 


  Action, the only activity that goes on directly between men without the intermediary of things or matter, corresponds to the human condition of plurality.


and hence


  action as a mode of human togetherness, Arendt is able to develop a conception of participatory democracy which stands in direct contrast to the bureaucratized and elitist forms of politics so characteristic of the modern epoch.


By participatory politics shes looking back to the origin of democracy in the greek polis, and this part of her act of interpretation (hermeneutics) of the political tradition in light of the various forms of totalitarianism evident in the early 20C by going back to the originary myth of Athenian Democracy, and reinterpreting not as representative democracy but refocusing on the genuinineness, authenticity and directness of participatory democracy.

Finally Action is not action as in action-movie or actioniste art; Arendt


  stresses repeatedly that action is primarily symbolic in character and that the web of human relationships is sustained by communicative interaction


so


  We may formulate it as follows. Action entails speech: by means of language we are able to articulate the meaning of our actions and to coordinate the actions of a plurality of agents. 


So Arendt is rescuing the ancient art of rhetoric, the art by which politics acts by persuasion, and that Plato denounced in favour of the art of contemplation. 
Your question is an interesting one, and it actually gets at some really fundamental and difficult stuff. In modern philosophical parlance featureless objects are known as 'bare particulars' and there is a literature on them. See 
http://tedsider.org/papers/bare_particulars.pdf http://tedsider.org/papers/bare_particulars.pdf for a recent article. E. Allaire also has an older paper that I think gets anthologized a lot.

Bare particulars are discussed in connection with substance theories. Substances theorists say that reality comes in chunks. Certain things, like atom, or people, or the sun are fundamental, whereas other things, like the atom's location, or the person's smile, or the sun's color are derivative. Call the fundamental things substances. 

Now, the question is what exactly is a substance? You might say: "It's the thing that's got the features, the color, the smile, whathaveyou." And that sounds right as far as it goes. But then you ask, well what are the intrinsic features of the substance itself? And it turns out to be very hard to answer that question because every time you try to name some feature that belongs to the substance, it turns out to be one of these derivative properties, like color or whatever. It looks, in other words, like the substance turns out to be just a featureless container for the other properties. John Locke, therefore, famously calls the substance a "something I know not what". That is a `bare particular,'  a featureless substratum that holds other properties like a pincushion holds pins. 

(Bare particular theories of substance aren't the only theories of substance out there, but there isn't space here for a full discussion.) 

The problem for bare particular views of substance is that it turns out to be really hard to explain how there could be more than one substance. Think of Leibniz's Law: Two things are identical if and only if they share all the same properties. But each bare particular has exactly the same properties as every other bare particular, (namely, no properties whatsoever). 

That's enough background to get you started.
See in Wiki the article about http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_numbers Large numbers including Graham's number :


  Although all these numbers above are very large, they are all still decidedly finite. Certain fields of mathematics define infinite and transfinite numbers. For example, aleph-null is the cardinality of the infinite set of natural numbers, and aleph-one is the next greatest cardinal number. c is the cardinality of the reals. The proposition that c = aleph-1 is known as the continuum hypothesis.

I'll prove the general claims and leave you with the task of finding examples. What I said https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/10737/4240 earlier about analyticity being relative to a set of meaning postulates is to be inherited in this discussion as well. To keep the models very simple, we're going to assume that logical truths are the same as tautologies.


  Definition 1. (Logical Truth) Sentence φ in language L is logically true iff every truth-assignment to the sentential symbols in φ makes φ true (i.e. φ is assigned ⊤ by all rows of the truth-table).
  
  Definition 2. (Analyticity) Sentence φ in language L is analytically true with respect to meaning postulates Π iff (Π → φ) is logically true in L.


Let's abbreviate "φ is logically true" as L(φ) and "φ is analytically true" as A(φ). Making use of those abbreviations, we want to decide whether the following two claims are true or false:


  Claim 1. ∀φ, ψ, Π : [ L(φ → ψ) ∧ A(ψ → φ, Π) ∧ ¬L(ψ → φ) ] → L(φ ↔ ψ).
  
  Claim 2. ∀φ, ψ, Π : [ L(φ → ψ) ∧ A(ψ → φ, Π) ∧ ¬L(ψ → φ) ] → A(φ ↔ ψ, Π).


Both claims begin with the same (pretty ugly) antecedent: 


  (Δ)             
                
                
   L(φ → ψ)   ∧   A(ψ → φ, Π)   ∧   ¬L(ψ → φ)  


which says of a given arbitrary sentences φ, ψ and a meaning postulate Π, that: (ψ is a logical consequence of φ), (φ is a Π-analytic consequence of ψ), and it's not the case that (φ is a logical consequence of ψ). Given the (Definitions 1–2), we can get rid of analyticity by defining it in terms of L:


  (Δ)           
                
                
   L(φ → ψ)   ∧   L(Π → (ψ → φ))   ∧   ¬L(ψ → φ)   


The general form of what we want to prove/disprove is now easier to see:


  Claim 1. ∀φ, ψ, Π : Δ → L(φ ↔ ψ).
  
  Claim 2. ∀φ, ψ, Π : Δ → L(Π → (φ ↔ ψ)).


Fact 1. Claim (1) is false.


  Proof. We want to show that given arbitrary sentences φ, ψ and postulates Π, it is possible to satisfy Δ but falsify L(φ ↔ ψ). To satisfy L(φ ↔ ψ) it would be necessary to satisfy L(φ → ψ) and L(ψ → φ), but Δ contains the conjunct ¬L(ψ → φ), so if Δ is satisfied then L(ψ → φ) will be falsified. Since by hypothesis Δ is satisfied, we know that ¬L(ψ → φ) is satisfied, so L(ψ → φ) is falsified, and therefore L(φ ↔ ψ) is falsified. Since φ, ψ, and Π were arbitrary, Claim (1) must be false.                                  ■


Fact 2. Claim (2) is true.


  Proof. Suppose arbitrary sentences φ, ψ and meaning postulates Π are such that Δ is true. We want to show that L(Π → (φ ↔ ψ)) is then also true. L(Π → (φ ↔ ψ)) is true just in case L(Π → (φ → ψ)) and L(Π → (ψ → φ)) are true. Luckily both are implicit in Δ! The first conjunct of Δ is L(φ → ψ), which is logically equivalent to L(Π → (φ → ψ)). The second conjunct of Δ is L(Π → (ψ → φ)), which we take as it is and combining with the previous result, obtain the required conclusion: L(Π → (φ ↔ ψ)). And since φ, ψ, and Π were arbitrary, we know that Claim (2) is generally true. 
                                          ■


As usual, feel free to leave a comment if something, especially the notation, isn't clear.
This language is undoubtedly influenced by the ideas of Galileo, what, in modern times, is called http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galilean_invariance Galilean invariance.  Using modern language: this is the global symmetry under which the laws of motion (i.e. Newton's laws) are invariant.  This symmetry persisted as a foundation of mechanics up until the time of the discovery of Relativitity, when Lorentz invariance was recognized as the relevant symmetry property.  Although General Relativity does cover the cases where there are locally defined reference systems, this is not (to my knowlege) referred to as a gauge symmetry -- that term is reserved for the complete invariance of the dynamics, in particular the invariance of the solution(s), to changes in some of the degrees  of freedom in the system description.  

Section IV of the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/newton-stm/scholium.html treatise further elaborates the idea of relative space.  Its unclear to me, who is not a scientific historian, to what extent he is wedded to the idea of the idea of "fixed space", although he does not explicitly reject it.  Newtons elaborations on the movement of the ship relative to the Earth, and things in the ship that move relative to it, is a clear reference to Galilean invariance.  I find it interesting that he hedges on whether the Earth itself moves in an absolute sense -- either he believed that this was a possibility, or he recognized that, for the purposes of any one discussion, you can pick a particular reference frame, and measure all motions relative to it; making that selected frame the arbiter of what constitutes absolute motion.

Note that all symmetries lead to a conservation law (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noether%27s_theorem Noether's theorem) it's just that in the case of local symmetries, that convservation law is a conserved current.

In one sense your final question doesn't have an answer: there simply are not gauge degrees of freedom for spacetime itself in GR.  The other way to look it is that GR provides the description for locally varying frames of reference already, but it is not a gauge theory.
1 seems wrong. Looking at the original thread, it seems to me that the error was ins supposing there was an object the universe such that it was the set of all things. The original argument argued that either (i) the universe caused itself or (ii) it was caused by something else. Not (i) because a thing can't be the cause of itself. But not (ii) either, because if this other thing would have had to not be part of the universe, but by definition everything is part of the universe. So options (i) and (ii) look like the only two possibilities, but we also see that neither of them can be true, because they both contain contradictions. Hence, the original poster concludes that the universe must have popped into existence out of nothingness. There's several problems with this argument. At least one problem is that creation ex nihilo isn't the only conclusion compatible with the falsity of (i) and (ii). For instance, the universe might have been eternal.

But there's another real problem with that original argument, which breeds a lot of confusion. This second problem is that the universe is not a real, concrete object, rather it is an abstraction, like numbers or sets. Think of it this way. Imagine I have two apples on the table. Now because there are two apples, it is true that there is a set of the apples on the table. I can give that set a name, I can tell you how many members it has, and so on. But the set of the apples doesn't have a cause--you don't have to push or pull on any matter to make a set exist, the way you have to exert some force to get a statue, or a baby to exist. Abstract objects are strange in that way. 

So too, the universe began to exist when the first real concrete object began to exist, just like the set of the apples began to exist when the apples were put on the table. There is still a problem--what caused the first concrete object to exist?--but now we don't have the strange apparent contradiction between (i) and (ii). 

Clearing up this confusion might help making sense of some of what puzzles you in your other points. For instance, in 3 you say "Logic appears only in space-time (logic is based on axioms that do not require proof - they came from observing events happening in time, therefore time and logic can be considered as inseparable and logic to be seen as part or by-product of time." This doesn't follow. The fact that the universe does not contain contradictions is an a priori metaphysical truth. The fact that we learn logic as adults, that our knowledge of it is based on experience, etc. doesn't not show that logic itself is somehow based on experience or that it is subject to the laws of physics, etc.

I don't know what to say about the last three points except that you seem to be thinking of "dimensions" along a spatial metaphor. A two dimensional figure looks like a line from the third dimensional perspective orthogonal to the first two dimensions. And you're then inferring that this process could be iterated higher and higher until we somehow consider the whole universe from some absolute perspective. But it isn't clear that this is possible. Time is a "dimension" in the sense that many formulae in physics include a parameter to measure change over time, but it wouldn't follow that somehow it is possible (for some mind, even a nonhuman mind) to adopt some fourth-dimensional perspective orthogonal to the three dimensions of space, let alone that there would be some fifth-dimensional perspective orthogonal to that and so on. 

I hope this helps clarify your thinking on these difficult, important issues.
I think that it is misleading to speak of "words". Words obviously exists.

According to me, we have to speak of "concepts".

Trying to "compress" a Treatise of Ontology in a few lines, we have objects; we are used to think at them as something that we can "see and touch" : the table, my keybord, the dog in the street.

Obviously, we have no problem in saying that such objects exists.

But there is another "type" of "entities" with which we interact : numbers, Higgs' boson, Google, society, ...

What they are ? It is hard to say that they are object like the above; at the same time, we "intercat" with them. We cam measure some physical magnitude connected with Higgs' boson. We "line in" a society with his laws. We have a continuous "dialogue" with Google. 

Of course - and this is my preferred example - we can use numbers to count (the pencils on my desk, to manage my bank account, to design a bridge, ...

I persoanlly do not like the "platonic heaven", and I'm not able to develop a teneable account of abstract objects.

I prefer to call them concepts. Are they "physical" objects ? I think not. Are they only "fictions" ? If we do not like the hypotheses of a "collective dream", it is hard to say that "something" with which most of us "interact" quite continuosly is deprived of some sort of ... reality or existence.

In conclusion, dogs and pencils exists : I see some of them now.

I think that also concepts exists : in this precise moment in time I'm intercating with a web-site called philosophy.stackexchange.
The lesson that should be drawn from what you say is that 'nothing' is not a referring term, but a quantifier. If you want to assign a separate semantic value to 'nothing' over some domain, D, take the singleton of the empty set (one of the 'generalized quantifiers' over D). To get at least the semantics of simple sentences going, where 'nothing' takes subject position, let VPs denote subsets of D and add the rule: a sentence of the form NP+VP is true (relative to D) iff [VP] ∈ [NP], where NP represents quantified NPs ([VP] ([NP]) is the denotation of VP (NP) over D).       

So, the sentence 'nothing is asleep' is true iff [is asleep] ∈ {∅} iff the set of sleepers is empty. These truth conditions seem to work quite well and they don't presuppose strange creatures such as nothingness. So, sometimes apparent philosophical riddels turn out to rest on bad semantic theories about the puzzling expressions. 
In classical Boolean logic at least, logical connectives can be completely understood semantically through their actions as truth-functions of Boolean values. In other words, the truth table associated with a particular logical operator provides a complete description of that operator. The standard truth table for the material conditional → is:


p | q || p→q

T | T ||  T

T | F ||  F

F | T ||  T

F | F ||  T


In your question you proposed a modified conditional (which we'll call ⇒ to distinguish it from the regular material conditional) where vacuously truths are replaced with vacuous falsehoods. The modified truth table that goes with this new operator is:


p | q || p⇒q

T | T ||  T

T | F ||  F

F | T ||  F

F | F ||  F


At this point you probably notice something peculiar, namely that this truth table is awfully familiar. It turns out your modified conditional would just be completely equivalent to standard logical conjunction. Another oddity to note about this modified "condition": just like conjunction, it's symmetric with respect to p and q! That means, it doesn't matter which one of p and q you call the antecedent and which one you call the consequent. It's this property which it makes virtually useless as an operator whose intended purpose is to capture our intuitive notion of a conclusion predicated on a conclusion.

As example to illustrate how important order is in changing the meaning of a statement, consider the Zeroth Law of Biology. The Zeroth Law states that "If you have had kids, then your parents have had kids." The converse statement, however, is obviously empirically false, so order matters here. Hence, we'd naturally disregard any alternative kind of conditional operator that fails to distinguish order.
There is no justification for one or the other.

Russell's paradox is a paradox if you believe** in unrestricted comprehension (for each P there is a set {x | P}), or at least if you believe** that the set {x | x ∉ x} exists. Russel's paradox is not a paradox if you use it to conclude that the set {x | x ∉ x} does not exist.

Cantor's diagonal argument is a paradox if you believe** that all infinite sets have the same cardinality, or at least if you believe** that an infinite set and its power set have the same cardinality. Cantor's diagonal argument is not a paradox if you use it to conclude that a set's cardinality is not that of its power set.



** "to believe" need here not be interpreted literally. It may be replaced by e.g. "to have as an axiom of a theory of sets".
Person 1 used initially an argument that relied not on any specific properties of what we call "universe" but only on the words in a sentence. Basically he said

Everything in (X) (Y) therefore (X) must (Y)

for the special case X = "universe" and Y = "has a cause". No reason was given why this would specifically apply to this X and Y. Therefore his argument can be refuted by giving an example where it does not apply. 

Person 2 proved the fallacy of the argument by demonstrating that the result of the argument is wrong in the case X = "wall" and Y = "is small". 

By giving the counter example Person 2 demonstrated that what Person 1 tried to use as a logical rule was not a valid logical rule. If Person 2 had claimed (which he didn't) that because walls are made of things that are small but are not small themselves, the universe which contains things having a cause cannot have a cause, pointing out that the universe is not a wall would be a valid refutation of that claim. But nobody made that claim. We could therefore say that Person 1 was using the "straw man" fallacy: Refuting a claim that actually nobody made. 

In reality, I'd say that Person 1 just didn't understand how Person 2's refutation worked. So his argument is probably just a non sequitur. 

Maybe this needs more explanation: P1 used without any justification an incorrect logical rule, to deduce a result that would be hard to prove or disprove ("the universe has a cause" is obviously hard to prove or disprove). P2 demonstrated that the logical rule was incorrect by giving a use of the exact same rule that leads to an obvious incorrect result. 

What P2 did was to demonstrate that P1 used a rule that wasn't generally correct. One could try to save some benefits of such a rule by finding conditions when it is correct to use. P1 didn't do this or even attempt to do this. One could try to demonstrate that a statement is correct without applying this rule. P1 didn't do this. Instead he just made the correct statement that "universe" is not "brick wall", probably trying to imply that therefore "universe" was not a counterexample disproving the validity of his logical rule, and probably trying to further imply that therefore his statement "the universe has a cause" was correct. 

And that is a non sequitur. Of course this doesn't follow. All that P1 has shown that P2 hasn't given a strong argument that "the universe has a cause" is false. But it was P1 who made a strong statement and therefore needs strong arguments to support this statement, which he doesn't have. 

Julian - the rule that P1 used is not a valid rule. Because it is not a valid rule, it cannot be validly used to argue anything. P2 demonstrated the invalidity of that rule. 

P1's next statement just produces a response of "so what"? So if the universe is not a brick wall, what does that have to do with the fact that P2 demonstrated that P1 was using an invalid rule? Nothing. Nothing of any interest follows from his statement. "The universe is not a brick wall" as a response has the same quality as "a boiled egg is not a brick wall" - it proves nothing. And that's what's called a non sequitur - a statement that proves nothing (especially not what someone is trying to prove). That's the correct term for his fallacy - a non sequitur. 
No, because the statement being true could also lead to paradox:

A: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liar_paradox This sentence is false."

If you presume A to be false, then A is true, and we have a paradox. 

But this doesn't prove that A is true, because if A is true, then A is false, and we also have a paradox.
Is it critical, logical, and imaginative?  Sure.  This is nowhere more evident than when comparing the ability of a baby to recognize and respond to faces and the ability of a computer programmed to attempt to do the same things.  The machine learning side of the problem shows how ferociously difficult it is, and the baby shows that we humans do it innately and with considerable talent.  Synthesizing "red" isn't such a great example because it's so simple (and so low-level: you literally need your eyes to produce different proteins to be able to effectively distinguish red and green, so it's more automatic than many other syntheses).

Is it conscious?  Sometimes.  One can show this even with colors; although much of western Europe divides things into "yellow", "green", "blue", "purple", in Russia there is a pale blueish color (transliterated "goluboy", голубо́й) that is considered part of the normal spectrum between green and (a darker) blue.  It is not something exotic like "azure" or "teal".  This difference in synthesis of visual inputs is entirely a product of culture, so it stands to reason that similar distinctions are within reach of intention.  (This does not mean that everything is within reach of intent, only that some things are.)

  Fact 1. ¬(A ∨ B) |= ¬(B ∨ A)


Proof. The negated form of the conclusion hints at an obvious way of proceeding: assume (B ∨ A)
 with the hope of deriving a contradiction. The disjunctive form of this assumption suggests the second step (proof by case analysis): assume B, derive some sentence Γ, then assume A and derive that Γ again; then using (B ∨ A) and those two derivations conclude Γ. Here's a way of applying those techniques:


¬(A ∨ B) [ Given ]
(B ∨ A) [ Assumption ]
B [ Assumption ]
(A ∨ B) [ ∨-introduction, 3 ]
⊥ [ ⊥-introduction, 4, 1 ]
A [ Assumption ]
(A ∨ B) [ ∨-introduction, 6 ]
⊥ [ ⊥-introduction, 7, 1]
⊥ [ ∨-elimination, 2, 3-5, 6-8 ]
¬(B ∨ A) [ ¬-introduction, 2-9 ].



  Fact 2. ¬(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) ≡ ⊥


Proof. The combinatorial space is bigger here, given that you haven't specified what rules you are allowed to use and whether you are to prove this semantically, proof-theoretically, etc.. I'll sketch an algebraic variant here. We want to show that ¬(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) ≡ ⊥. We can proceed as follows:


¬(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) ≡ ⊥ [ Goal ]
(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) ≡ ⊤
(A ∨ (¬A ∨ ¬B)) ≡ ⊤ [ De Morgan ]
(A ∨ ¬A ∨ ¬B) ≡ ⊤ [ Associativity ]
(⊤ ∨ ¬B) ≡ ⊤
⊤ ≡ ⊤.


Another method would be to use valuations (truth-tables).  We want to show that v(¬(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B))) = 0. The useful fact is: v(¬φ) = 1 - v(φ). We proceed as follows.


v(¬(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B))) = 0 [ Goal ]
v(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) = 1
v(A) = 1 or v(¬(A ∧ B)) = 1
v(A) = 1 or v(A ∧ B) = 0
v(A) = 1 or (v(A) = 0 or v(B) = 0)
(v(A) = 1 or v(A) = 0) or v(B) = 0
1 or v(B) = 0
1


This is pretty much the same as the one above. You can go with the one that's closest to the system you use. I didn't justify the steps because, as has been pointed out, we don't know what rules you can use.
"Cake" is an arbitrary name for a food, just as "Max" is an arbitrary name for a person. "I" isn't a name, but a pronoun. It can be replaced with a name (such as Max), but is not a name by itself.
Actually, that's not entirely clear... but it's just a question of how we define "deontological" rather than any deep philosophical thing. Contemporary ethical discussion seem to love the term as http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ethics-deontological/#DeoTheKan a contrast with consequentialist theories or virtue theories. Moreover, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/deontology Kant could not have used the term because it did not exist until after he was dead.

Yes, the CI is such that it obligates the moral agent to perform its duty and since it relates duty to morality, it is "deontological". 

But then if we look carefully,  doing your duty is not enough for Kant, the maxim of the action of your duty must be universalizable and in accordance with pure reason. There's a lot of hoops there, but to say it another way, if my duty were somehow to help an old lady across the street, I only do my duty for Kant when I help the old lady across the street from the motive of duty itself (rather than allowing some emotion or desire for praise to be the source of my duty).

This term is less helpful than the counterpart consequentialism, because different consequentialisms differ not primarily in the methods -- calculating the best consequence given some limitations but in the quantity that matters. Deontologies differ in the way that duty relates to morality at all (is it performance? is it rights-based? Are these duties we contract either through some social contract or as a condition of rational action in a world with multiple moral agents?) In many contexts, the differences in forms matter greatly.
Yes I believe your understanding is correct. The statement is indicative because it expresses a known state of affairs. The statement is conditional because it uses the classic "if/then" or "antecedent/consequent" structure. The statement is deontic because it refers to what "ought to be" or what is "permissible."

A related statement, "if it were necessary that you live in Texas, you would be ought to watch football," would be classified as subjunctive deontic conditional because it expresses an unknown state of affairs.

So, yes, you're correct as far as I can see...
You might be looking for something like the complement of the http://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/apartness+relation apartness relation.  Apartness focuses on distinguishing things, instead of identifying them.
http://scholastic.us.to/24Thomisticpart2.htm#thesis4 Thesis 4 of the 24 Thomistic Theses might shed some light on "being qua being" (which is God, because http://dhspriory.org/thomas/summa/FP/FP003.html#FPQ3A4THEP1 God is the only being whose essence is His existence) versus all other beings (whose beings ≠ their essences):


  http://scholastic.us.to/24Thomisticpart2.htm#thesis4 Thesis IV.
  
  Ens, quod denominatur ab esse, non univoce de Deo ac de creaturis
  dicitur, nec tamen prorsus aequivoce, sed analogice, analogia tum
  attributionis tum proportionalitis.
  
  Being, which derives its name from existence, is not predicated
  univocally of God and creatures; nor yet merely equivocally, but
  analogically, by the analogy both of attribution and of
  proportionality.


 


  Commentary: If the actuality of existence is in God a Pure Act and is in creatures an Act mixed with Potency, Being cannot be predicated of God and creatures in an identical way: God is self-existing, creatures have their existence from God. Still, because the effect in some manner reproduces its cause, Being does not belong to God and creatures in a totally different sense. Being, as predicated of God and creatures is an analogous term. Its analogy is first that of attribution, since Being appertains to creatures as far as they have it from God, to whom it appertains by essence; and is secondly that of proportionality, since the actuality of existence is intrinsic to God and creatures as existing beings.http://dhspriory.org/thomas/summa/FP/FP013.html#FPQ13A5THEP1  [Summa Theologiae, Iª q. 13 a. 5; http://dhspriory.org/thomas/ContraGentiles1.htm#32 Contra Gentiles, lib. 1 cap. 32 et http://dhspriory.org/thomas/ContraGentiles1.htm#33 cap. 33 et http://dhspriory.org/thomas/ContraGentiles1.htm#34 cap. 34; http://dhspriory.org/thomas/QDdePotentia7.htm#7:7 De potentia, q. 7 a. 7]

I think that you are asking for :


  how to prove that (∃y)(∀x)Fxy is not a logical consequence [see this https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/10785/semantic-vs-syntactic-consequence post for the definition] of (∀x)(∃y)Fxy.


If so, in order to prove it, we have to find a counter-example, i.e. an interpretation such that (∀x)(∃y)Fxy is true while (∃y)(∀x)Fxy is false.

The "standard" counter-example is found assuming as domain for the interpretation the set N of natural numbers and with the relation < ("less-then") as interpretation for the binary predicate symbol F.

We have that in N it is true that :


  (∀x)(∃y)(x < y)


because for every natural number n it is enough to choose n+1 and we have n < n+1.

But :


  (∃y)(∀x)(x < y)


is false, because there is no number which is greater than all other numbers.



Regarding the second problem, it amounts to show that :


  (∀x)(Fx → Gx) and ¬(∃x)(Fx & Gx) are simultaneously satsfiable.


We can show it applying some simple transformations.

1) A → B is equivalent to ¬A ∨ B

2) ¬(A & B) is equivalent to ¬A ∨ ¬B [De Morgan]

3) ¬(∃x)A is equivalent to (∀x)¬A.

Consider now : (∀x)(Fx → Gx); by 1) it is equivalent to : (∀x)(¬Fx ∨ Gx).

Consider : ¬(∃x)(Fx & Gx); by 3) it is equivalent to : (∀x)¬(Fx & Gx) and by 2) to : (∀x)(¬Fx ∨ ¬Gx).

Thus the problem is equivalento to show that :


  (∀x)(¬Fx ∨ Gx) and (∀x)(¬Fx ∨ ¬Gx) are simultaneously satsfiable.


We can prove this assuming a domain with only one black ball and interpret the two predicate symbols Fx and Gx as "x is white" and "x is square" respectively.

With this interpretation, the first formula : (∀x)(¬Fx ∨ Gx) means :


  "all objects in the domain are not-white and square"


while the second formula : (∀x)(¬Fx ∨ ¬Gx) means :


  "all objects in the domain are not-white and not-square".


Due to the fact that in the domain there is only one black ball, i.e. a not-white ball, both disjunctions are satisfied simultaneously.
If by "consistent" you mean that a formula of propositional logic is satisfied by some truth assignment, i.e. in his truth table there is at least one row with T under the formula, and if by "contingent" you mean that the formula is not a tautology, i.e. it is not identically true, then to use the truth table to answer your question you have to find at least a row with T (for consistency) and at least a row with F (for not being a tautology, i.e. for "contingency").
In Kant, time is a form of intuition, not a part of external reality, so both interpretations are consonant with him.  You can pretty much go crazy with the subject without raising any objection to the Kantian picture, because he put it into a category that is by necessity broad and flexible.

Recall that Kant was trying hard not to directly conflict with his religion, which holds a worldview that encompassed angels, for whom time was absolutely optional and could be replaced by a different form of intuition, with a more refined sense of duty, in an eternal state.

A type of mind comes with its own equivalent of time, a priori.  So, to the extent something like evolutionary development is a self-driven problem solving mechanism, genes, and before them particles probably qualify as a 'type of mind' in his terms, even if Kant himself would have rebelled at the notion.  Their notion of time need not be ours, but any important consequence will be translatable between the two.
The rest frame of relativity is at rest by definition. More concretely the COBE experiment shows the earth's velocity relative to the visible universe as a whole taken as a rest frame beyond which no other larger frame is known. 
I think not. The characterization of "transcendental deduction" that you quoted from the SEP seems to me too liberal. Kant's sense of "transcendental deduction" is more specific than that. For Kant it is a kind of proof of right, a proof of legitimacy.

The backdrop of Kant's deduction is David Hume's criticism of the concept of cause. Hume argued that the concept of cause, as it is traditionally conceived, is not derived from sense experience, and is therefore illusory and illegitimate. Kant agreed  that the traditional concept of cause is not derived from sense experience, but insisted that it is nevertheless legitimately applied to sense experience. It is to prove this legitimacy that was the task of the transcendental deduction. In addition, Kant observed that Hume's criticism applied not only to the concept of cause, but to the larger set of basic concepts that are being applied to the objects of sense experience - the categories. So it became the task of the transcendental deduction to prove the right, the legitimacy of applying the categories to the objects of sense experience.


  Among the many conceptions, which make up the very variegated web of human cognition, some are destined for pure use a priori, independent of all experience; and their title to be so employed always requires a deduction, inasmuch as, to justify such use of them, proofs from experience are not sufficient; but it is necessary to know how these conceptions can apply to objects without being derived from experience. I term, therefore, an examination of the manner in which conceptions can apply a priori to objects, the transcendental deduction of conceptions, and I distinguish it from the empirical deduction, which indicates the mode in which conception is obtained through experience and reflection thereon; consequently, does not concern itself with the right, but only with the fact of our obtaining conceptions in such and such a manner. (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/4280/4280-h/4280-h.htm Critique of Pure Reason Transcendental Deduction §9) (emphasis mine)


I see no parallel issue of legitimacy surrounding the concepts of Special Relativity. Einstein did tweak with the concepts of time, speed, etc., but he was not applying non-empirical concepts to experience, in the way that Kant was adamant to do. So the term "transcendental deduction" does not fit, in this case.
It follows directly from the definition of implication.


  x=y ∨ φ ≡ ¬¬(x=y) ∨ φ ≡ ¬(x=y) ⊃ φ


φ can be any formula. You don't need the other axiom.
This answer isn't actually mine, it's from an http://www.newphilosopher.com/articles/being-fully-human/ article on NewPhilosopher. I will paraphrase the article but all credit should go to the author of said article.

We should start by recognising the obvious, that the claim is addressed to those who satisfy the quality of "being human". For Socrates, a human being should have the ability to eclipse basic desire in order to make conscious, ethical choices. However, this is not denying that basic desire, instinct etc.. have the ability to shape our behaviour.

For instance, you may think it highly unlikely that a lion would spare its prey out of concern for its nearby children. For humans, we don't always need a visible "accusing hand" in order to stop us doing something. Oftentimes, we hold a simple belief that something is "wrong" because we just feel that it is wrong.

Now, let's get onto the "unexamined life" part which we will take to mean:


  Those who do not examine their lives (make conscious ethical
  decisions) fail to live a life that allows them to experience being
  fully human.


Under the previous definition of "being human", those who fall prey to the allure of answers which allow them to follow custom and set aside contemplation- are possibly living an unexamined life.

An unexamined life of the above sort would be quite pleasant, where one can live a "conventional" rather than ethically examined, life.
Rather than intuitive and logical, better terms might be ontological and phenomenological. David Loy says in Non-Duality: A Study in Comparative Philosophy (pp 214-215) the following:


  From the perspective of Buddhism, Vedanta reifies this emptiness 
  into an unqualified substance which, since it has absolutely no characteristics of its own, cannot really be said to be. From the perspective of Vedanta, Buddhism ignores the fact that some such ground is necessary, for, as Parmenides pointed out, nothing—not even appearances—can arise from nothing and it is meaningless to deny all substance: something must be Real. This is the point of Sankara’s only telling criticism of Madhyamika: “It is not possible to negate the empirical world without the acceptance of another reality” (Brahmasutrabhasya II, ii.31).  For the Advaitin this lack of a substance seems (Buddhist denials notwithstanding) nihilistic, or, to say the least, unattractive in comparison with an eternal, immutable, all-encompassing Absolute. As in the previous section, this conflict too may be resolved by understanding the difference between an ontological perspective and a phenomenological one. Ontologically we may agree with Advaita that there must be something. There is no logical necessity to this—from a purely logical standpoint there could be absolutely 
  nothing—but the simple fact that there is experience contradicts such 
  an ontological nothing. Yet at the same time there is no phenomenological
  necessity for there to be something—no a priori need for that 
  Real to be anything objective that can be experienced. This is the point 
  of intersection between the conflict of categories, and from there we 
  can see how the two approaches had to meet: attributeless Brahman 
  purified itself into emptiness as sunyata was reified into that which 
  gives birth to all phenomena. The inner dynamism in each tradition 
  led to much the same understanding of nonduality. 

There are three standard ways of describing the logical form of "A unless B" where A and B are sentences:

a. A or B
b. If not-A then B
c. If not-B then A


These three are, happily, logically equivalent.

In your description, item [2] uses one form (my b) and item [4] uses another form (my c).
All material beings are going to be sensible, on Aquinas's view. (Can't speak for Aristotle for sure, but I imagine the answer would be the same.) 

The reason is that for insofar as a being is material, it also has determinate dimensions. To have matter is to have some quantity of stuff among your parts, which means that you have to be extended in space. This is just to say that all material objects are bodies having three dimensions that occupy space.

But once you we know a thing is a body, then we know it is going to be sensible (at least in principle) as well. What the senses are, on Aquinas's view, is instruments for receiving the sensible qualities of bodies, such as color, texture, and so on. For a body not to be sensible it would have to have a surface that simply lacks color and texture and taste and smell and so on. 

Note that all of the above are meant as observations of nature--strictly speaking insensible material objects might be metaphysically possible. Maybe God could make a body that doesn't have any sensible qualities, but the point is this doesn't seem to happen in nature.
This is not quite right. Individuals in Lewis's worlds are world bound, in other words, each one only appears in a single possible world. In this sense, Lewis is the polar opposite of Kripke, whose individuals can be rigidly designated and appear in multiple worlds. In Lewis's modal realism Kripke's rigid designators, even proper names, will fail to refer except in a single world.

Perhaps what you mean is the problem of transworld identity for external observers. It is hard to pick the right referents in different worlds considering that we have only outward characteristics to go by, and there may be "twins" or "duplicates". Lewis resolves this problem in an unexpected way: there are no "right" referents, or rather all similar enough copies are right enough. So much so that for the purposes of reference there may be multiple counterparts of me even in the same world as me. 

This is based on Lewis's interpretation of counterfactuals, sentences like "it is not possible for me to speak Finnish right now". How can we interpret this without transfering individuals into other possible worlds? His solution is the counterpart theory. Such counterfactual is true if "someone similar to me", my "counterpart", can speak Finnish right now. For Lewis this "similarity" is highly contextual, and the same someone may count as counterpart in one context, but not in another. 

For more see http://www.oberlin.edu/faculty/mwallace/ModalRealism.html Wallace's summary of modal realism:"To borrow one of Lewis’ examples, it is not possible for me to speak Finnish right now, since I don’t know the language. But it could have been that I learned Finnish when I was younger, or that I had just finished Intensive Finnish for Philosophers-in-Training, in which case it is possible for me to speak Finnish right now... Part of what contributes to the fact that our modal intuitions are so flexible from context to context in this way, Lewis thinks, is the fact that the counterpart relation is based on similarity relations, and such relations are highly flexible and malleable sorts of things.". 
According to Plato, ideas are conceived only by intellectual intuition. Typical Platonic ideas are the beautiful, the true, the good, the just. Ideas strongly affect the objects of the perceptual world: An object is beautiful because it participates at the idea of the beautiful - according to Plato.

The clearest exposition of the ascent from the world of perceptual objects, i.e. our every-day world, to the realm of Platonic forms is described in Diotima's speech in Symposion, notably 210ff. In plain words, it is the process of continous abstraction.

The first harsh critique and rejection of the Platonic theory of Forms is due to Aristotle: Metaphysics, 990b ff. Aristotle started as a student of Plato at the Academy in Athens.

  
  what is my logical fallacy, hidden assumption or missing information, if any?
  


Buddhism teaches that impermanence (analogous to "change") is a characteristic of any/all "component things" or "compound things" i.e. of things which have been put together: which are also called "conditioned phenomena" because their existence depends on or is conditioned by other things.

Among "impermanent phenomena" are https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%E1%B9%85kh%C4%81ra Saṅkhāra: which includes things imagined and things desired.

But impermanence/change itself is not a "compound thing".


  
  If change is not a quality, then what kind of concept is it?
  


It's a characteristic of things, not a thing.

Things are impermanent.

Impermanence is not necessarily impermanent (because impermanence is not a thing).


  
  How to demonstrate/illustrate the "unchange" of something, if it is possible?
  


There's a well-known expression, "you can't step into the same river twice." (perhaps https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Heraclitus attributed to Heraclitus).

You may be introducing an extra confusion when you say that "a thing has changed", or that "some specific change is a permanent property of some thing": because in reality the changed thing isn't the same thing as the previous thing (see the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus Ship of Theseus).
Logic is rooted in the claim that consistently useful generalizations can be made about an argument based solely on the form, independent of content.  It's a process of abstraction, very similar to the way numbers are an abstraction of our experience of quantity.  It's possible to study logic as a purely abstract, mathematical exercise, but if you want to view it as the science of argument, you can't escape that claim.

Thinkers such as http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/tarski Tarski, and many others, have done their best to establish firm foundations for logic at a fundamental level, but you still essentially have to accept as a given that formal concepts such as logical truth and validity do reliably map back to the real world (much the same is true in mathematics).

The main issue is that logic is our chief system for constructing proofs --we cannot use it to justify itself, or its own axioms.
See http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/aristotle-categories/ Aristotle's Categories : 


  Aristotle divides what he calls ta legomena (τἃ λεγόμενα), i.e. things that are said, into ten distinct kinds. Things that are said according to Aristotle, are words, and so it is natural to interpret his second system as a classification of words. [...] There are three reasons to think that Aristotle is not primarily interested in words but rather in the objects in the world to which words correspond. 


For me, this is a key point in reading Arstotle : the interplay between logico-linguistic analysis and metaphysics.


  that are neither said-of nor present-in anything. Such entities, Aristotle says, are primary substances. Although he only gives a negative characterization of primary substances in the Categories — they are neither said-of nor present-in — the examples of them that he provides allow us to form a more robust conception of what a primary substance is supposed to be. His favorite examples are an individual man and a horse. So, it is natural to interpret him as thinking that among primary substances are concrete particulars that are members of natural kinds. 


It seems that, saying that substance "is that which is neither said of a subject, nor in a subject" must be interpreted from the logico-linguistic point of view : a particular cannot be "predicate of" some other particular (it cannot be said od a[nother] subject) nor can be "attributed to" something.
The correct answer is: practice.

Praxis is to theoria as theoria is to praxis. Theory is inferred from practice, and practice confirms theory. This is the basic hypothetico-deductive model of science, and the relation is not circular but dialectical and progressive. In Kant's justification of scientific knowledge, experience or experiment "in practice" acts as the empirical boundary to justified rational hypotheses "in theory."

Of course, there are innumerable complications. As Einstein supposedly remarked: In theory, theory and practice are the same. In practice they are not.  
The passage quoted in the question is from Plato's Phaedo 74b.

In the passage around, Socrates aims at the difference between two concrete things, which are equal, on one hand, and on the other hand the abstract idea of equality. He gives an example: Two pieces of wood may seem equal. But in order to recognize that they are are equal, we must have formed before the idea of equality - according to Socrates.

That's one of the many points in Plato's work, where Plato lets Socrates perform Plato's own doctrine. Here the theory of forms in the context of Plato's doctrine of anamnesis, which means to rediscover in our life those ideas which the soul has learned before during its pre-existence. 
In the first one, it is valid to go from All B are A; all C are B; therefore all C are A. In predicate logic this would be called a hypothetical syllogism. Aristoteleans would call it a syllogism in Barbara. 

In the second one, you are concluding only that some C are B. In Aristotelean logic this is OK, because "all C are B" is understood to have existential import (i.e. it presupposes there are some C's) and so it is OK to move from there to some C are B. In standard predicate logic, one is allowed to say all C are B even if there are no C's, so this is not valid. 
Let's supposed we're only talking about people who actually believe the ship exists, and that it continues over time. (There are many, many positions on this question, and endurantism/perdurantism isn't relevant to all of them.) The question that is at stake is how can one thing have two contradictory properties? The ship has a certain plank at one time and lacks that same plank at another, so it looks like the ship has a property and lacks that property. 

On the perdurantist picture, "the ship" is a four dimensional entity, and what you or I call "the ship", pointing to it at one particular instant is really just one 'temporal part' of the actual ship, which is this four dimensional entity. On this view, the same entity, the ship, can have contradictory properties at different times--such as having a certain plank at t1 and lacking that plank at t2--precisely because each of those temporal parts are not per se the ship. The ship does not per se have that certain plank or lack it, rather, the plank is present in one of the ship's temporal parts, and lacking in another; hence there is no contradiction. (think of a soccer ball--it can't be both white and black, but it can be white in one part and black in another part.)

Endurantists, on the other hand, want to say that this isn't the right way to think of identity. If the ship has a plank at t1 and lacks it at t2, that doesn't mean the ship is four dimensional; it just means that having or lacking that plank isn't essential to the identity of the ship. On this view, i take it, one would simply reply to the question about the contradictory properties by saying that it is not a contradiction for a thing to have different properties at different times. In other words, perdurantists look at identity as a timeless relation, whereas enduratists think that identity is time-indexed. Nothing can be both black all over and white all over at the same time, but there is nothing about the soccer ball's being black all over on monday that means that it can't remain the same soccer ball on tuesday when it is white all over. 

tl;dr -- the debate is about whether identity is time-relative or not. Perdurantists say no, and hence say the ship is a four-dimensional spacetime worm. Endurantists say yes, and say the ship exists completely and totally in the present; there are no "temporal parts".
Logically, it is a paradoxical statement.

Paradoxical statements do not describe real situations or occurrences.  They cannot be evaluated to either true or false because the thing they describe, according to the laws of logic, are not possible.

Therefore "always is always wrong" is a nonsensical statement.  It is not true, false, not-true, or not-false.  It is paradoxical and describes nothing that is comprehensible.

If you wish to allow irrationality to exist, of course, then it can exist - we just can make no statement definitive statement about it at all, as it does not conform to the existence/universe that we have knowledge of.
Read the footnotes. He points to a paper with a deduction of the third way. It is found here:
https://appearedtoblogly.files.wordpress.com/2011/05/mydole-robert-22the-modal-third-way22.pdf "The Modal Third Way"
It's a 57 step deductive proof, found on page 9-10. Followed by another 17 step proof for something else (I didn't read the paper). I don't think anyone else will want to do this in their free time at this time of the academic year unless they have really unhealthy procrastination habits like myself.

As a bonus, here is a quote from the conclusion of the paper:


  I have argued that Aquinas’ original Third Way can be modally transformed
  into an arguably sound demonstration of the existence of a temporally neces-
  sary being who is supreme. The theist understandably might take some
  measure of comfort from this argument by interpreting the temporally neces-
  sary supreme being as God. One should be cautious, however, about reading
  too much into the Modal Third Way. The god of this proof is one that need
  not exist in every possible world. Worse, the theistic victory will be pyrrhic if it turns out that the universe is uncaused and unexplained. The supreme being
  of the Modal Third Way could also be the god of deism, the god of pantheism,
  or even a demiurge.

"Especially those who claim evil cannot be responded to with love." - using https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_theory game theory and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism utilitarian measures of what is good and what is bad, it has been shown that in some situations, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner%27s_dilemma for example the prisoners dilemma, a http://www.forbes.com/sites/rogerkay/2011/12/19/generous-tit-for-tat-a-winning-strategy/ tit-for-tat strategy (being nice to those who are nice to you and being mean to those who are mean to you) is the most beneficial strategy. 

Presumably, if one were to translate this idea to concepts of "love" and "evil", then the winning strategy is to respond to love with love, and to evil with evil.  
The fallacy arises because ad hominem has no unbiased axiomatic value to the original argument. From the quoted text the actual debated argument is holding the line Palenstine and not are John Kerry's arguments for holding the line valid/bias. In fact if it was the second, this wouldn't really be ad hominem, but while arguing the first and attacking(not refuting) the arguments of your opponent and not addressing the argument you commit a fallacy; a failure in reasoning that renders an argument invalid. Why? Because you do not address the original argument, that is the failure in reasoning, ad hominem argues toward a topic NOT being debated.
I would recommend that you get hold of a copy of https://books.google.com/books?id=1JcsHEm9CLgC "The philosophy of Social Science" by Martin Hollis. In this book he considers different approaches for explaining social action including that of Winch.
Wittgenstein's notion of the language-game gives a credible alternative more in-line with the observed data.  He characterizes informational interactions as a game, the rules of which are negotiated by the players and learned by new arrivals.  We can agree the sun is round because we have learned what people mean by round, not because roundness is natural to human beings.  Therefore it is not really universal, there may be tiny children somewhere whose notion of roundness is incompletely developed.  They just have so little leverage on the game as a whole that we can ignore them until they adapt to the general experience and correct their notion of the label.

There are observations that are universal in an objective sense, and always remain that way, but that is only because the humans not holding them do not get purchase on the game.  In your example of 'the round sun', the definition does not change, because learning it early and precisely pays off too well.

And even the game itself, or the notion of a game and how it is played, is not necessarily a universal.  There are humans born who are too autistic to 'get' how to enter any existing game.  But it is widespread enough that we simply declare those people defective and run civilization as if they did not exist.

(I don't think it is coincidental that descriptions of the people who give us the best models in this domain often suggest they are partially autistic.  This includes Wittgenstein himself and also Alan Turing.  People who are not a little 'Aspey' simply swim in the game as fish in water.  They just don't ask 'What do you mean by an idea?' 'Why can one person make another person think something?'  or 'What does it mean to figure something out?' without some prompting.  They don't believe the game exists because they are used to thinking of it as reality.)

The other formulation of this same idea is Lacan's observation that 'master signifiers' are empty.  Anything important to human beings is folded up into layers of references, and the references seem to point back to a single basis.  But if you carefully unfold the references, you find that humans do not in fact really share what seems to be shared in the ultimate definition.  We don't all really agree on exactly which more or less ovoid shapes are round.  The place where each of us puts the cutoff differs, and in the end, the number of people who exactly agree on a precise and complete definition of roundness is going to be zero.

Both of these viewpoints lead us to a notion of logic that is less realist and more psychological.  We can make and express judgements because the psychological effects on other people are well-predicted by their investment in the game (or in the hierarchy of signification.)  And we can judge the physical world by seeing what psychological models of it do and don't lead to success.

We cannot actually make judgements, in the sense we would like, only predictions.  There are no facts, only the power to safely presume which actions will be safe and effective.  We all hold that power to different degrees, dependent upon our grasp of and leverage over the rules of the games we take part in, and we have an internal model that we leverage to do this, but it is not one that is ever completely shared outside ourselves.  (Or, if we don't have a model, we lack leverage on the game, and we are not effective.)

Classical logic is a lovely model of what we (or at least those with the power to be 'we') wish language were like.  By explicitly learning it, we can better negotiate the game.  But it is an incomplete model with idealized elements that simply do not refer to anything.  The gain is in the coordination of information exchange, and not in describing reality.  Reality is better described in a piecemeal and fluid manner.
Comment

The example [slide 20] is not clear to me ...

According to the Venn diagram, we are left with an "unshaded" area at the intersection of S and P.

Thus, accordind to rule of slide 7 :


  if by diagramming the premises you have not diagrammed the conclusion, the argument is invalid,


this seems enough to conclude with the invalidity of the argument.
You have to recall the Existential fallacy.

If there are no Ss, we have that the "set of Ss" is empty. Then we have "all R are S", which means that the "set of Rs" in included into the "set of Ss". Thus : no Ss implies no Rs.

But "all C are R"; thus, again : no Cs.

If we have no Cs, the sentence "some C are S" is false : this is the Existential fallacy.

Thus, from the "modern" (Boolean) standpoint, the form is invalid.

From the Aristotelian standpoint, the syllogism is valid provided that the condition stated in Table Sect.5.1 [Figure 1 - schema AAI] is satisfied :


  the subject of the conclusion (the minor term) exists [in your example : the "set of Cs" is not empty].


This is why C is the critical term : in order to avoid the Existential fallacy from the Aristotelian standpoint, you have to apply the schema to cases when the term C has "existential import" [see examples : "Some tigers are animals" versus "Some unicorns are animals".]
Hurley's proof system is based on a set of rules (18 plus Conditional Proof and Indirect Proof) called improperly Natural Deduction.

A "standard" natural deduction proof system for propositional logic, like : Ian Chiswell & Wilfrid Hodges, https://books.google.it/books?id=JeUDUWYD5eQC&pg=PA217 Mathematical Logic (2007), has 13 rules : 2 for each connectives (included ↔), plus RAA.

A proof system for classical logic must be sound (i.e. able to prove only tautologies) and complete (i.e. able to prove all tautologies). The Natural Deduction proof system is sound and complete. 

It seems to me that Hurley does not treat completeness of his proof system, but clearly he using a redundant system with enough rules and it would be possible to prove it.

Some rules are "critical", in the sense that if we remove them, we are cannot prove all the tautologies.

For example, if we remove RAA rule from Chiswell & Hodeges' system, what we get is a proof system for  http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-intuitionistic/ Intuitionistic Logic.

In terms of tautologies, this means that into the "reduced" proof system we cannot derive https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_excluded_middle Excluded Midlle : p ∨ ¬ p, because this tautology is not intuitionistically valid.



Having said that, I think that Hurley's statement :


  Moreover, some arguments have conclusions that cannot be derived by the direct method [...]. Conditional proof may thus be seen as completing the rules of inference. 


means that all 18 rules of Implication and Replacement allow us only to derive new formulae from other ones, i.e. to produce derivations of form : A ⊢ B. Thus, we cannot prove a logical truth, i.e. we cannot produce a derivation of form : ⊢ A.

In order to do this, we need some way to "discharge assumptions", and thus the need for the CP and IP rules. In particular, CP allows us to transform a derivation A ⊢ B into a new derivation : ⊢ A → B. 



In conclusion, the issue is not with "weaker or stronger": Hurley speaks of "shorter and simpler" derivations, but of "completing the [set of] rules of inference" in order to prove tautologies.

See §7.7 Proving Logical Truths [page 438] :


  Both conditional and indirect proof can be used to establish the truth of a logical truth (tautology). Tautological statements can be treated as if they were the conclusions of arguments having no premises.

Ax is an assumption (see note : ACP) : thus, it can be whatever we want.

ACP is used to "prepare" you to apply the MP in line 5, in order to derive Cx, under assumption Ax.

Then, by CP, we derive : Ax ⊃ Cx.

As you can see in line 4, UI is used to "unpack" the leading UQ of premise 1.

The UQ is already "there" in 4: thus we have no need to assume the UQ again in the ACP, in order for us to apply UI.
Logical rules must be https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundness sound, i.e. they are devised in such a way that the consequence of a rule is logically implied by the premises.

The "paradigmatic" example is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modus_ponens Modus Ponens : if P ⊃ Q and P are true, also Q is.

The issue with your "reformed" quantifier rules is that they are unsound: Qa is not a logical consequence of (∃x)Px ⊃ (∃y)Qy.

To check this, consider a "universe" where there are neither Ps nor Qs; in this interpretation (∃x)Px ⊃ (∃y)Qy is true while Qa is false.
(If your focus is directly on Empedocles, pardon the disconnect.)

There are three different ways the elements can be opposed to one another, and Western esoteric traditions have used all three of them to good effect. Different perspectives arise from different contrasts between the behaviors of the elemental ideas.

Hermes Tresmigistus is said to have that name because his discipline involved three focal traditions: Alchemy, Astronomy and 'Theurgy'.  Each of these is invested in a different pattern of pairing the elements.

In traditional Alchemy, the two oppositions respect motivation and stability as aspects of work.  Fire (exciting) opposes Water (calming) and Earth (solid) opposes Air (adaptive).

In Astrology, the two oppositions respect seasonal contrasts.  Fire (hot, Summer) opposes Air (cold, Winter), Earth (solid, Autumn) opposes Water (fluid, Spring).

In most other Hermetic domains (including what has evolved into modern Witchcraft, Ceremonial Magic, and Jungian psychology), the two oppositions respect traditional interpersonal conflicts.  Fire (passion/intuition) opposes Earth (stability/sensation), Water (merger/feeling) opposes Air (separation/thinking).

One way of looking at all the patterns is on the points of a tetrahedron.  Then each point of the tetrahedron can be seen as representing one of the elements.  Looking onto the figure from the point of view of the different edges shows each of these potential patterns, depending on the edge.  Looking at the triangles surrounding each point calls out the Cardinal, Fixed and Mutable concepts associated with using that element as a model.

(I am not sure how much of any of this is philosophy.  But it presents interesting seeds for meditations on how sets of ideas fit together.)
In general, we have

SufficientConditionForX => X
X => NecessaryConditionForX


so we can see that they behave in opposite ways in regards to how statements imply one another.

Given the question, I think you want to apply this to how negation reverses implication. Recall that the following are equivalent:


X => Y
¬Y => ¬X


So we have

¬X => ¬SufficientConditionForX
¬NecessaryConditionForX => ¬X


or otherwise


¬SufficientConditionForX is a necessary condition for ¬X
¬NecessaryConditionForX is a sufficient condition for ¬X


  What is the difference between correlation and causation?



Correlation is a descriptive relationship, all it says is: here are a bunch of measurements of two (or more variables) and there is a specific numerical relationship - that the correlation coefficient is above a certain threshold. Formally speaking correlation doesn't indicate anything more than that. 
Causation on the other hand is an explanatory relationship: It provides a logical relationship between the variables, which one should be able to generalize to cases beyond the set of measurements from which we drew the initial hypothesis. In your Pirates/Temperature graph case, one would have to provide a detailed explanation/mechanism of what is it exactly about pirates that kept global temperatures down? Was it their clothes? Was it their funny accents? Was it their obnoxious parrots? Then would should be able to generalize this mechanism to other cases. Let's suppose that on deeper analysis, I decide that it was their accents that were keeping global temperatures low. I could then generalize this by http://www.talklikeapirate.com/piratehome.html having normal non pirate people speak with a pirate accent, and measure the effect it has on global warming. 


Causation is hard to define concisely, but here is a recent definition from http://people.hss.caltech.edu/~jiji/Causation-Explanation/Cartwright.pdf Nancy Cartwright (https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/31258/does-causality-always-require-an-arrow-of-time See also this post): 


  C causes E if and only if C increases the probability of E in every situation which is otherwise causally homogeneous with respect to E. (Causal Laws and Effective Strategies, 423)


The key word here is "in every situation". Correlation doesn't involve every situation, only the data we have right now. Causation on the other hand involves every situation, including many not included in our current data. Notice the probabilistic definition, to allow for statements like "Smoking causes cancer" to be true even though we have met one or two heavy smokers who don't have cancer.    


  For example, how do we know when we're dealing with correlation only and not also causation here? 


This is still an open question. Resolving it would have serious implications for philosophy of science (with regards to the demarcation problem and to the problem of induction).

To some extent, Karl Popper's https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Falsifiability#Falsificationism falsificationism was an attempt to solve this problem. Before that, Logical positivists https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verificationism verificationism was problematic exactly because correlation doesn't imply causation, and one could verify all sorts of pseudo-scientific theories, provided they dug up enough suitably correlated data-points. However, falsification doesn't solve the problem completely. 

Now given that two data sets A & B are correlated, lets look at the possibilities of why they are correlated: 


Their correlated is purely coincidental. 
A causes B. 
B causes A. 
A and B are both caused by a third variable C. 


Falsification allows us to rule out cases like (1): In your pirate example, if one had a way of suddenly increasing the number of pirates, or managed to get everybody to starting speaking like a pirate for a few years, they would notice that after 10 or 20 years, the global average temperatures still didn't go down, so we can safely throw away the hypothesis that pirates have some causal relationship on global temperatures. 

But that leaves us with (2), (3) and (4). For these, there are some heuristics for discerning between the possibilities, but no sure fire method. 


Time is a factor: In any real world physical case, cause always precedes effects, so if your data is timestamped with enough precision, you could use that as an indicator. This would allows to decide between (2) and (3), but still leaves us undecided between which ever one of those we select and (4). 
Generalization: If your explanatory theory explains only the two variables you have and nothing else, than you might want to dig deeper. A good theory should be able to explain other related questions, not just those posed by the data at hand. For example, although a causal relationship between pirates and climate might explain the data you have in your graph, it won't ever explain anything else. Explaining climate change using the concept of greenhouse gases also explains other phenomena, for example why greenhouses work, and why Venus is so much warmer than Earth.   
Does your explanation fit with other already existing theories? Is there a more general pattern that these theories follow? If pirates are linked to climate change, can we also link the decline in gladiators to water pollution?  

A point is an idealized object. The single property of this idealization is the point's position. But a point has no extension.

Within an axiomatized theory like Euclidean geometry a point has to satisfy certain axioms with respect to lines and planes. E.g. to each pair of points exists a unique line passing through both points.
These look correct to me, although the second is missing a close parenthesis.  By the way, I believe the second one is a tautology.
A quantifier that "acts" on no variable - like in your example, where there is no occurrences of y in the scope of the leading existential quantifier, i.e. in the subformula ∀x(F(x) ↔ M(x)) - is not "formally" wrong but it does not add anything to the meaning of the formula.

Thus, the formula must be read as:


  "all and only men are footballers."

Time, space and spacetime are concepts we use in the context of physical theories to denote objects and events.

According to both the Special and the General Theory of Relativity, the basic concept is spacetime, a 4-dimensional manifold. Events are points in spacetime. They are determined by 4 parameters. After choosing a coordinate system we decompose these 4 parameters into 3+1 coordinates. They denote the space where the event happens and the time, when the event happens.

This fact can be taken as the meaning of the sentence "to be in time". 

But immediately we have to face the fact, that decomposing the 4 parameters into space and time has a certain arbitrariness due to the choice of the coordinate system. Hence the absolute statement is "to be in spacetime". Only the latter is independent from the choice of the coordinate system. While "to be in time" is a relative statement. 

When restricting to gravitational interactions every object which is "in spacetime" always moves through spacetime on a distinguished curve (geodetic line). This fact can be denoted as "being subject to spacetime".

As a consequence my answer to your original question is: Yes, everything, which is in spacetime, is subject to spacetime.

Of course there are things which are not in spacetime, e.g. laws of nature or mathematical objects or propostions.
The Bundle Theory of Self is one model where it is possible to have awareness without there being a subject. In the Bundle theory the self or the mind is not a unified entity, but just a collection of memories and perceptions which together give the mere illusion of there being a central subject, but without there being any real unified self. 

The Bundle Theory was first proposed in Buddhist philosophy, with the concept of the five https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skandha Skandhas: A person is made of 5 aggregates - material form, feelings, perception, volition, and sensory consciousnessn - and there is no central "I". 

The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hume#The_self modern formulation of the Bundle theory comes from David Hume and the Empiricists. Derek Parfit and Daniel Dennett are contemporary philosophers who subscribe to the bundle theory. 

Douglas Hofstadter, has an interesting variation on the bundle theory, which he calls "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Am_a_Strange_Loop Strange Loop". Instead of awareness necessitating a subject, it is the other way around: It is when a bundle of sensations and memories becomes complex enough to start perceiving itself that the subject emerges. 
I would be wary generalizing all of mathematicians, but you make a valid point.  When a person uses an English phrase in the form of "I seek X for the sake of itself," that phrase is used to state that that person believes X has intrinsic value.  Thus people who study math "for the sake of itself" self identify as people who believe math has intrinsic value.

Whether that extends to all mathematicians is a much more nuanced question.  It seems entirely possible that an individual labeled as a mathematician could study math because it is a tool to achieve a goal.  On the other hand, it is also possible to define "mathematician" to be "someone who believes math has intrinsic value" if you are comfortable with your definition potentially straying from the "mathematician" used by others who do not share your definition.
6.26

1.A v (B ^C)

2.~B v ~C v D



3.-A

4.-A V D (V intro 3)

-5. B^C 

--6. ~B 

--7. B (conjunction elim. 5)

--8. contradiction (contradiction intro 6&7) 

--9. A V D (contradiction intro)

--10. ~C 

--11. C (conjunction elim. 5) 

--12. contradiction (c intro 11&12)

--13. A V D (contradiction elim) 

You do the rest! If you can get A V D on the second level of the subproof, you can bring it to the first by means of disjunction elim. Once you do that, the rest should be easy! 
"Dasein" is a German noun derived from the verb "dasein". The latter means simply "to exist". It is used in daily speech without any philosophical connotation.

As a technical term "Dasein" denotes "human existence" in the context of existentialism. The term is used by Heidegger. He contrasts it with "vorhanden sein = to be available". While objects are available (vorhanden sein), only humans can exist (dasein) because they are conscious of their situation.

Hence in the context of existentialism a car cannot "exist". It can only be available.   
You are right from the "traditional" point of view.

The issue is with the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syllogism#Existential_import existential import of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Categorical_proposition categorical propositions:


  If a statement includes a term such that the statement is false if the term has no instances, then the statement is said to have existential import with respect to that term. It is ambiguous whether or not a universal statement of the form "All A is B" is to be considered as true, false, or even meaningless if there are no As.


In https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Square_of_opposition traditional syllogism the inference from "All S are P" to "Some S are P" (subalternation) is licensed by the assumption that there are Ss (and so also Ps).

In modern logic, while it is (usually) correct that "For all x Px" implies "Some x is Px", the modern translation of the categorical proposition is: "For all x (if Sx, then Px)", that is true also when there are no Ss, and thus we cannot correctly infer: "There are some x (Sx and Px)".



Formally:


  ∀x(Sx → Px)


is equivalent to:


  ¬∃x(Sx & ¬Px)


which in turn is:


  ∀x(¬Px → ¬Sx) [steps 1-3].


Now we have subalternation [step 4]:


  ∃x(¬Px & ¬Sx)


which is not correct from the modern point of view. 

Consider your statement:


  "if P refers to the collection of ALL objects, that means that non-P does not exist";


thus, ∃x(¬Px & ¬Sx) is false: there are no non-Ps, while ∀x(¬Px → ¬Sx) is vacuously true.

This means that, for modern logic, the inference from: ∀x(¬Px → ¬Sx) to ∃x(¬Px & ¬Sx) is not valid.

This does not mean that ∃x(¬Px & ¬Sx) is always false: if S stay for "Fishes" and P for "Water_living", we have that "All Fishes are Water_living" is true, and thus also "All non-Water_living" are non-Fishes" [steps 1-3].

But this does not contradict the fact that also "There are some non-Water_living that are non-Fishes" is true.

This is the key to the textbook answer: 


  
    A valid argument is one that form true premises infers true conclusion.
  


For modern logic, subalternation is not valid; but this does not means that the conclusion is always false.
See http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/tarski-truth/ Tarski's Truth Definitions: in a nutshell, T's definition amounts to adopting the intuitive principle concerning truth that, for any sentence p, we have the so-called T-biconditional:


  ‘p’ is true iff p


where ‘p’ is a "name" for p.

In your language, we have a "subject" p (i.e. a "piece of reality") and a "proposed description" (i.e. a linguistic entity) of it: ‘p’.

Tarski's theory "formalize" the intuitive understanding of truth; as you said:


  True and false are names for relationships between a subject and some proposed description of that subject. If the proposed description matches the subject, then the relationship is named true. 


As soon as we apply this theory to language itself, we are lead to the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/liar-paradox/ liar paradox if the language (has natural language does) has enough resources to talk about its own semantics. 

Various solutions has been formulated:


the distinction between http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/tarski-truth/#ObjLanMet object language and metalanguage
the http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/type-theory/ theory of type
http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/truth-values/#2 truth value gaps.

Actually, there's an important objection to Lewis's Modal Realism along the lines of your question. This objection was developed originally in http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00048408412341351 this paper by Forrest and Armstrong I think (don't have access to this paper from home). The idea of their objection is that given some principles Lewis is committed to, it would turn out that there simply couldn't be a set of all possible worlds---it would turn out that the "set" of possible worlds wouldn't have a well defined cardinality or something. If you're interested, I can try to dig up the technical details later.

Apparently Lewis wrote a reply in the AJP in 1986, but I don't know what he says there.
Comment on similar example.

The example is not from Aristotle.

Categorical propositions with singular terms are used in Medieval logic; see http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/peter-spain/ Peter of Spain's https://books.google.it/books?id=eRAuAAAAMAAJ Summulae logicales (XIII century):


  I,8 Propositio singularis est illa [...], ut "Sortes currit" [Socrates runs].


Into this textbook we can find many examples of them in the discussion of loci and entimema [V,3], bt it seems to me that there is no occurrence of the specific example of syllogism.

According to: Joseph Maria Bochenski, https://books.google.it/books?id=QXoIAQAAIAAJ A History of Formal Logic (1961, or.ed.1956), page 232:


  A first widening of the Aristotelian syllogistic consists in the
  admission of singular terms and premisses. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ockham/ William of Ockham (c.1287–1347) already knows of the substitution that was to become classic [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sum_of_Logic Summa Logicae, III 1,3;36rb]:
  
  
    Every man is an animal;
    
    Socrates is a man;
    
    Therefore, Socrates is an animal.
  
  
  Here the minor premiss is singular. But Ockham also allows singular propositions as major premisses.


The earliest occurrence I've found is:


http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/sextus-empiricus/ Sextus Empiricus, https://books.google.it/books?id=mzO77w6KvDgC&pg=PA112 Outlines of Scepticism (Pyrrhōneioi hypotypōseis), Book II, 164:



  
    Socrates is human.
    
    Everything human is an animal.
    
    Therefore, Socrates is an animal.
  

The bible does not state that in the beginning there was nothing. Genesis begins with:


  In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep.


I think that the word void in King James Version is meant in the sense of emptiness, not nothingness. Here is the Hebrew source:


  בְּרֵאשִׁית, בָּרָא אֱלֹהִים, אֵת הַשָּׁמַיִם, וְאֵת הָאָרֶץ. וְהָאָרֶץ, הָיְתָה תֹהוּ וָבֹהוּ, וְחֹשֶׁךְ, עַל-פְּנֵי תְהוֹם


The words without form and void correspond to תֹהוּ (tohu) and בֹהוּ (bohu) respectively. bohu is traditionally translated by religious scholars as desolation or emptiness.

In modern hebrew the two words taken together form an idiom that roughly means chaos. 

Interestingly these two words taken alone, correspond roughly to two states of consciousness, namely to wonder or to ponder (lithot) and to stare or to gaze (libhot).

One can find mentions of this relation by searching google for "תוהו ובוהו" together with "תהיה ובהיה" or "תוהה ובוהה", where the later two pairs correspond to the cognitive meanings.

There are also two traditional sources that point out the cognitive sense. One is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genesis_Rabbah Midrash Rabah from around 3rd century AD which explains the two words as http://archive.org/stream/RabbaGenesis/midrashrabbahgen027557mbp#page/n61/mode/2up/search/bewildered+and+astonished bewilderment and astonishment. The other is the 1000-year-old http://archive.org/stream/RabbaGenesis/midrashrabbahgen027557mbp#page/n61/mode/2up/search/bewildered+and+astonished Rashi who notes that http://shtikles.weeklyshtikle.com/2015/10/the-weekly-shtikle-bereishis.html tohu connotes wonderment.

I personally like to interpret these words to mean that when God first created the universe it consisted of consciousness.



Note: It reminds me of a poem by the physicist Richard Feynman which goes like this:


  I wonder why. I wonder why.
  I wonder why I wonder
  I wonder why I wonder why
  I wonder why I wonder!

The expression is meaningful, because the meaning of a sentence is a function of the meaning of its parts, as long as those parts are put together in the right way. "A and not-A" is a conjunction of "A" and "not A". A is a meaningful sentence, not-A is a meaningful sentence, and if you conjoin two meaningful sentences, you still get a meaningful sentence in return; hence "A and not-A" is meaningful, even when we mean exactly the same thing by "A" in both hands of the conjunction (avoiding the worries about indexicality you mention), it just happens to be false. Indeed, the sentence is necessarily false.

But there's no general rule to the effect that necessary falsehoods are meaningless. Sometimes mathematical conjectures turn out to be false. But if a mathematical conjecture is false, it is necessarily false. But the research mathematicians who were working on the conjecture were clearly treating it as meaningful all along. 

A final example, consider a sentence that is a tautology rather than a contradiction: "A or not A." This sentence is true, and indeed necessarily true. But the fact that it is a necessary truth still entails that it is meaningful utterance to make, even if we don't often have occasion to utter tautologies in ordinary language very often.
OK so I completely forgot what https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramsey_sentence Ramsey sentences are.

On point 2, supposing that every a priori proposition is analytic, then it seems each only needs one term replacing


  http://www.jimpryor.net/teaching/courses/mind/notes/ramseylewis.html Let's say we want to explain what the different parts of a car are...
  First, we transform our Car Theory into an existentially quantified
  sentence, quantifying out all the bold terms our audience doesn't yet
  understand.
  
  x1 x2 (...and x1 mixes gasoline and air and sends the mixture to x2,
  which in turn...and that makes the wheels turn.) 
  
  This is called the
  Ramsey Sentence for our Car Theory (after the philosopher and
  mathematician Frank Ramsey). Next we can define what it is to be a
  carburetor and an ignition chamber as follows:
  
  A carburetor = an x1 such that   x2 (...and x1 mixes gasoline and air
  and sends the mixture to x2, which in turn...and that makes the wheels
  turn.)


right?

So supposing that the sum of analytic facts do not add up to anything which cannot be expressed in an analytic proposition, their sum only expresses something non-relational, like:


every x is an unmarried man.


I think the sentence is non-relational because all analytic propositions tell us is a definition: of a term which is now eliminated.
Something is true if it has been a fact in a time- and space-frame. 

i.e. something is part of real-ity if it is real, descrite and observable.

The closest we can find paradoxes outside language and in physical reality is in computations that do not compute, for example, a computer programme that crashed.

Reality never crashes, our interpretations of it do. Paradoxes always have an element of self-refentials, sort of a reference to their axioms, their basic structure or something like that (e.g. think of Russell's paradox). A paradox like 'nothing that I say is true' has this self-referential component that is analogous to a sentence like 'every sentence of this type has the verb after the subject' with an added element of 'crashing', as in being wrong.

Semantically we understand it as procedure going 0->1->0->1... sort of a perpetual semantics machine. The short answer would be that this is an inherent pitfall of our language, a bug not a feature, that we should be careful for. We should be careful not to have conclusions that make as change our axioms, we should plan it that way. Paradoxes are not more interesting than that, feedback loops are much more interesting than that.

But if you like you can create some sort of robot that chases its tail.
Substance refers, literally, to what "stands under" a thing. It is something distinct from the attributes of the thing, the "what-it-is" (quidditas, to borrow Scholastic terminology) that makes it, e.g., a person or chariot or whatever. Nagasena's point is that there are no substances in that sense, i.e., there are only the attributes (technically skandas, which is more normally translated "aggregates"), so that there is nothing to the chariot apart from its attributes. Hence, there is nothing substantial to the chariot. It's not precisely that the chariot is nothing; it's that the name "chariot" refers to nothing but these attributes.  In your terms, the synergy is nothing other than its attributes (i.e. it's not a superset of the attributes; it's not really anything at all). If you want to term this a "substance" that's fine, but it's not a substance in the sense that Nagasena is attempting to deny, precisely because the concept of "chariot" doesn't add anything to the wheels, the axel, the reins, etc. To put the argument in a slightly different way, imagine the chariot is destroyed and its parts scatter. There's a wheel over here, the axel's over there, the flag pole sunk into the sea, etc. Nagasena's point is (roughly) that there aren't any fewer things than there were before.

To move a bit deeper with the argument from a Buddhist perspective, the important thing about these attributes is that they are nothing other than percepts, feelings, etc.  ("phenomenal facts"). They don't refer to anything other than the operation of consciousness per se. The chariot isn't a thing; it isn't there at all. It's simply brought into our perception by the operation of consciousness.

In Western philosophy, Nagasena's chariot argument is known as https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus the Ship of Theseus, though it's usually discussed with a different end in mind, i.e., the identity of the thing rather than its existence or non-existence.
From a different mathematical point of view, for any given thing, there are more things it is not than there are sentences to describe them.

Not every real number can actually be described in language, there are more of them than there are formulas or sentences.  From there, we certainly can't describe all of the real numbers that are not his specific one, much less all the things other than real numbers...

So, you may be able to select a item from a set, and then negate that selection.  But you surely can't build up any kind of real description of an item by stating what it is not.

Basically, negation seems simple and applicable to all cases, but it has all kinds of problems, starting with the one addressed here: https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/36294/9166 https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/36294/9166

Pairs of contrasting things can be identified, especially if you have identified the whole that they together make up.  But that is not identifying either one of them in terms of 'what it is not'.  It is, in fact, without a surrounding positive frame of reference, impossible to identify anything by what it is not.
▻ HARMAN'S BASIC POSITION

Let's take a moral judgement : 

'S ought to do A'.

On Harman's account, if I make this judgement I assume that S has motivating reasons to do A. Not just any motivating reasons, of course, but sufficient motivating reasons. This means something like : 

S's motivational attitudes are such that, in his or her circumstances, A is the action supported by the best reasons, X. 

This assumes agreement between myself and S that A really is the action supported by the best reasons and that these reasons are X. 

Harman assumes the possibility of a moral community united in a consensus that 
A is the action supported by the best reasons, X. The consensus will extend to a range of other actions, B, C, D ... , all of which the community agrees are supported by the best reasons. There is also agreement on what these best reasons are in each case.

There is a problem here. Harman specifies only a vague level of consensus. Such a community is formed only when 'each of a number of people intends to adhere
to some schedule, plan, or set of principles, intending to do this on the
understanding that the others similarly intend' (G. Harman, 'Moral Relativism Defended', Philosophical Review, 84, 1975, 4). 

It is hard to see how such a vague agreement can yield anything so precise as 'the best reasons' to support any particular action. Something far more circumstantially specific is required. That's my first problem. 

▻ HARMAN'S RELATIVISM

But assume, what motivates the question, that the 'schedule, plan, or set of principles' is specific to the group; and that S is a member of the group by virtue of an implicit contract (though it could be explicit). The group's morality is relative to the group. They have adopted it; and no-one outside the group has, all else equal, sufficient motivation to act on that morality. This gives us a form of moral relativism. 

▻ SKEPTICISM AND SUBJECTIVISM DO NOT ENTAIL HARMAN'S RELATIVISM

Grant practical moral skepticism : there is no rational reason to be moral.

Grant moral subjectivism : moral judgements express (nothing but) attitudes. 

I can't see how entailment would work. This is my second problem :

1 There is no rational reason to be moral.

2 Moral judgements express (nothing but) attitudes.



3 Moral judgements, such as S ought to do A, apply only if the
agent who is the object of them has contracted into a group every
member of which intends to adhere to some schedule, plan, or set of 
principles, intending to do this on the understanding that the others 
similarly intend.

1 and 2 do not entail 3. 

▻ HARMAN IS NOT A PRACTICAL MORAL SKEPTIC

There is a third and final problem. Unless I am much mistaken, Harman believes that under the contractual conditions he describes, it really is the case that 'A ought to do S'. Whatever this is, it is not practical moral skepticism  - or moral subjectivism. 
He also means that you cannot dismiss the notion of free will, or you lose an element necessary to explain human behavior.

"Man is condemned to be free; because once thrown into the world, he is responsible for everything he does."

Whether or not free will is logical or compatible with our religious notions or even our physics, it is a necessary component of our psychology.

Responsiblity is an essential part of life, subjectively, and the domain in which human individuality is played out.  It can be escaped only by dishonesty.  So dismissing free will via philosophy, sociology, religion or physics is still a form of dishonesty.
"One"" Ένα" does not mean "everything that is". 
One means one, "everything that is" is "all, whole" Όλο". 

The one representing the whole is "everything that is". Written as One, "Εν". If one does not include itself, then there must be something else i.e. a secondary one, 
that is also a one but not the one that represents the whole. So one as a whole includes itself. This is the identity principle. 

a. One is not an object. It is an idea. 

b. Dialectics, everything derived from dialectics.

c. Every object, is contained in itself. This is the reason it can be described and distinguished as an object. 

i.e. This is an object. This "an" really means "ένα", one. Included in itself. 
Flatland by E. Abbott has already been mentioned. I remember it as a form of utopia, with simple rules. Higher level forms are believe to be polygons with more sides, and then a (malignant) 3D sphere appears.  

I believe that the stories around the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Planiverse Planiverse by Dewdney are a little more interesting: they involve a different 2D world, little a planar cut of ours, and investigate physics, technology (could a wheel exist in 2D?), physiology (wouldn't they be cut in two by their digestive tract?).  Technology and physiology are interesting gates to the actually life of those beings.

Close to flat animals seem to exist:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Placozoa Trichoplax adhaerens (with a https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_AYgOJTc90 video). We could as well be 4D being, lacking faculties to grasp our true dimension. May even up to the http://tenthdimension.com/medialinks.php tenth dimension?
No not universal. Law of nature depends upon 'how much an entity has surpassed the time?'. A photon which is not experiencing time has different laws of nature. 
I would call it a non-sequitur.

But there is a catch. From a purely formal viewpoint:

Premise 1: P → Q
Premise 2: P
Conclusion: Q


So in that logic system, an entity called God exists. It doesn't mean anything about the existence or non-existence of God outside of it, and particularly that the philosophical entity God is the same or different from the entity in this logic system. For all we know, they could be homonyms.
You can do it either way. In 'traditional' first-order logic, the only individuals are objects, not properties. In first-order logic, one can say "there is an object that has the property F" or "all objects have the property F" but one cannot "quantify over" properties themselves.

However, in second-order logic this is possible. In fact, Leibniz's Law, which summarizes something important about identity is a second-order formula: It says, "for two objects x and y, [if x = y, then for every property F (Fx if and only if Fy)]."
I agree that the specifics of Plato's Cave Parable are not easy to interpret. Concerning the shadows, specifically,  I think that the idea is that the prisoners in the cave lack the opportunity to figure out what shadows are, to understand shadows as shadows. And that therefore the prisoners have no clear basis to ontologically distinguish the shadows from the wall on which the shadows appear, or from the prisoners themselves. It is not clear to what extent the prisoners are self-conscious at all. Note also that the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegory_of_the_Cave allegory of the Cave appears right after the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Analogy_of_the_divided_line analogy of the Divided Line, where Plato set "perception of shadows" as the lowest level of human understanding.

The Cave allegory, by the way, is only loosely connected to the theory of Forms. Part of its idea is, as you say "to shows our reality to be a shadow of a far more pure and truthful reality". And this, whether the true reality consists of the Forms, or of anything else. But even more than about reality, the Cave is about understanding, about knowledge. It is about the lowly condition of human understanding and knowledge, and about the chances of rising above it. So this is how Plato enters the allegory:


  And now, I said, let me show in a figure how far our nature is enlightened or unenlightened:—Behold! human beings living in a underground cave, which has a mouth open towards the light and reaching all along the cave ...


And this is how he exits the allegory:


  Moreover, I said, you must not wonder that those who attain to this beatific vision are unwilling to descend to human affairs; for their souls are ever hastening into the upper world where they desire to dwell; which desire of theirs is very natural, if our allegory may be trusted ...

It is hard to argue that nested quantification is not natural.  Quite early languages have articles and combinations of moods that serve the purpose of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sanskrit_pronouns_and_determiners#Indefinite_and_absolute_negative_phrases quantifying.  We naturally say 'A dog is (by nature) four-legged', or, if we own Champ the amputee, 'Dogs are not necessarily four-legged'.  There is not a thing that marks quantification, but as a consequence of mood ('by nature', 'necessarily') it is grammatically present.

Since we have verb phrases that reference other verb phrases, then, successions of moods result in nested quantifications.  "Should there be a distance delta given, a fraction epsilon must be found which..." or in a well inflected language "I give (subjunctive) delta, you find (imperative) epsilon within it to..." encodes equally well the constant nested quantification in analytics "For every distance delta there is a lesser epsilon such that...".

Aristotle moves forward from here with his framing using pronouns of quantity.  I think this was not natural to his language, as such things were still generally phrased by http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.04.0007%3Apart%3D4%3Achapter%3D57%3Asection%3D157 hypotheticals with protasis and apodosis in different moods.

It can be argued that Aristotelian forms are not quantified, but it is clearer to say that his 'No', 'One' and 'Some' are in fact quantifiers, just less simple and more natural to human usage.  And even if 'All' is in some way not identical to universal quantification, it captures the itent.

But if you look at what proceeds from Aristotle's own language you easily get them nested "All the children of some mothers will be talented."  Some forms of this in older Greek are literally nested in a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Greek_grammar#Definite_article form similar to "The(nominative) The(genitive) some mothers(genitive) [all] children(nominative) talented will-be."

Our abstract Universal and Existential forms may therefore be less natural than other earlier forms of quantification.  But parameterization of the form you propose comes into the argument much, much later, when people start trying to reify relations, and does not find natural forms in language even in English and French, where it was first injected.  So it is hard to argue that it would be more natural than nesting.

So, based on classical languages, I would claim that a very thorough form of modal logic would be the most natural way to think about quantification, even though it might be more complex syntactically than our two quantifiers, but that nesting is a natural artifact of any representation of quantification.

It is hard to see how a system where "possibly (delta > 0) implies necessarily (epsilon in [0, delta] and...)" stands in for "for all delta > 0, there exists an epsilon in [0, delta] such that..." can be processed as smoothly, but it captures the idea of 'ask and answer' more naturally than the traditional form. 
How is a cycle simpler than a straight line?

One-shot cosmologies are naturally simpler logically in several ways:


They are robust relative to perturbance and chaotic attraction since they do not require things to line up perfectly at the start and end of a cycle
They do not produce a large number of entities (everything in the whole next cycle) that cannot be accessed or tested for in our current universe
They can exist with or without conservation laws
They allow for the things we currently observe going in a single direction (like spatial expansion and entropy increase) to really just continue forever, without somehow 'correcting' for going 'too far'.


The simpler solutions just feel bad because of Kant's antinomy on the start and end of time.  We have a conceptual problem with the start and end of time, and we transfer this difficulty onto the start and end of human consciousness, finding it difficult or insulting to imagine consciousness first arising, or 'the soul' ending.  But those could just be our problems, and not the universe's.

A single point that escapes our intuition and bothers us in a vague way is not additional complexity in the same way rigid conservation laws or multiplication of entities is.
"Set theory" is a vague term, which may refer to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naive_set_theory "naive" set theory that involves basic properties of point sets, functions, relations, etc. These are at the same object level as analysis, although they are more generally applicable and are used also in geometry, arithmetic, algebra, etc. Tao specifically refers to "set-theoretic foundations" however. These are axiomatic theories that "interpret" analysis by reconstructing it from what is provided in the axioms themselves, and nothing else. The most popular of them, ZFC (for https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zermelo%E2%80%93Fraenkel_set_theory Zermelo-Fraenkel-Choice, the last one refers to the axiom of choice),  formally builds everything from a single predicate (belongs to) and a few objects provided by its existence axioms (empty set, an infinite set, the powerset of a set, etc.). Some of the constructs are then identified with analytic objects.

Constructing a meta-theory usually means axiomatizing a field, and reasoning about what can and can not be derived in the resulting formal theory, e.g. whether it is consistent, complete, its axioms are independent of each other, etc. A standard way of resolving these issues is constructing various https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_theory set-theoretic models, e.g. Gödel proved (relative) consistency of the axiom of choice with other axioms of ZFC by constructing ZF models where it holds, Hilbert similarly proved the indepenedence of the parallel postulate from other axioms of Euclidean geometry. There is a similar way of axiomatizing real analysis, and the study of such axiomatization(s) is accomplished by formally embedding it into axiomatic set theory, see https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1776288/is-the-axiomatic-approach-to-defining-mathbbr-rigorous/1783590 Is the axiomatic approach to defining R rigorous? This is why Tao considers "set-theoretic foundations" to be "part of the metatheory of analysis".
Freedom is a transcendental condition for the Categorical Imperative to be real. And the four different formulations mean exactly the same for him.

I will argue how for Kant, the possibility of the experience of a categorical imperative presupposes freedom as necessary in his mature ethical system. Before that, the systematic relation between freedom and the CI changed as I want to illustrate by slides I made for a presentation recently to illustrate the transition (they are simplifying things, although it might not look like it). 

The question why the formulations are identical and in which sense is - obviously - answered within the Groundwork. Note that autonomy and being an end in itself is not freedom in a liberal sense. It essentially is being able to subdue oneself under the CI and through this being able to give universal laws (that are truly universal).

There is no inner conflict between the right of freedom and the Formula of universal law, as you may see directly from the following quote:


  The latter principle [=the CI] must undoubtedly take precedence; for, as a principle of right, it has unconditional necessity. (Towards Perpetual Peace, 8:377)


Also, it is in the very quote Hodgson provides:


  Freedom (independence
  from being constrained by another’s choice), insofar as it can
  coexist with the freedom of every other in accordance with a universal
  law, is the only original right belonging to every human being by virtue
  of his humanity. (Doctrine of Right, 6:237)


I will nevertheless provide an answer that tries to fully answer both the title question as well as digressions within the question.

All quotes from the Cambridge Editions of the works.

Critique of Pure Reason

In his first Critique, he raises the point that imperatives as such transcend the realm of nature and its standing under the https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/38071/what-is-the-law-of-causality/38076#38076 Law of Causality, because they express something that is not existent in nature and therefore laws of freedom:


  Hence this [i.e. considering what is good per reason] also yields laws that are imperatives, i.e., objective laws of freedom, and that say what ought to happen, even though perhaps it never does happen, and that are thereby distinguished from laws of nature, which deal only with that which does happen, on which account the former are also called practical laws. (A802|B830, emphasis mine)


This is why


  Practical freedom can be proved through experience. (ibid)


because we obviously do know imperatives and occasionally act according to them. Nevertheless, transcendental freedom (and its reality!), i.e. "a faculty of absolutely beginning a state, and hence also a series of its consequences"(A445|B473) remains a problem:


  We thus cognize practical freedom
  through experience, as one of the natural causes, namely a causality of
  reason in the determination of the will, whereas transcendental freedom requires an independence of this reason itself (with regard to its
  causality for initiating a series of appearances) from all determining
  causes of the world of the senses, and to this extent seems to be contrary to the law of nature, thus to all possible experience, and so remains a problem. (A803|B831, emphasis mine)


He does something pretty messy to justify the reality of freedom afterwards, using God both as a starting point as well as His reality as conclusion and therefore not tackling the possibility of all of this being mere illusion, as illustrated in the slide:

https://i.stack.imgur.com/6sedj.jpg 

Groundwork for Metaphysics of Morals

Here, Kant learned out of the mistakes of CPR and sees it as his first and foremost task to justify the reality of freedom (which he tries in Chapter three!).

In the first two Parts and the first two subheadings of the third part he still does only argue why and how things relate to each other, ending with the statement that (the idea of) freedom, i.e. transcendental freedom, may be a necessary condition for free will and morality and that the Categorical Imperative is an expression of a free will ("a free will and a will under moral laws are one and the same", 4:447). But we in no way proved that we have free will, i.e. that the CI is binding for us:


  We last traced the determinate concept of morality back to the idea
  of freedom; which we could not, however, prove as something actual
  even in ourselves or in human nature; we saw only that we must presuppose it if we want to think of a being as rational and endowed [...] with a will; and thus we find that on just the same grounds we must ascribe this property of determining itself to action under the idea of its freedom to every being endowed with reason and will. [...] But why, then, ought I to subject myself to this principle, and do so as a rational being as such, and hence thereby
  also all other beings endowed with reason? (4:449, emphasis mine)


I think this partly answers the question regarding the difference. If we see freedom as necessary for rational beings, we have to presuppose it for every rational being, at least in principle. If we do this, there is free will. If there is free will, there is autonomy. If there is autonomy, there is CI (see also 4:447). This is how he comes to the Kingdom of Ends Formula: If every single rational being is autonomous and in fact giving universal laws through its free will, they are systematically connected to each other through these laws:


  The above three ways of representing the principle of morality are
  fundamentally only so many formulae of the same law, one of
  which of itself unites the other two within it. However, there is yet a
  dissimilarity among them, which is indeed subjectively rather than objectively practical, namely to bring an idea of reason closer to intuition
  (according to a certain analogy) and thereby to feeling. For all maxims
  have
  
  l) a form, which consists in universality, and then the formula of the
  moral imperative is expressed as follows: that maxims must be chosen as
  if they were to hold as universal laws of nature;
  
  2) a matter, namely an end, and then the formula says: that a rational
  being, as an end according to its nature, and hence as an end in itself,
  must serve for every maxim as the limiting condition of all merely relative and arbitrary ends; 
  
  3) a complete determination of all maxims by the that formula, name-
  ly: that all maxims from one's own legislation ought to harmonize
  into a possible kingdom of ends as a kingdom of nature. (4:436)


The unifying formula is the Formula of Universal Law:


  But in moral judging it is better always to proceed by the strict method,
  and make the foundation the universal formula of the categorical imperative: act according to the maxim that can make itself at the same time a universal law. (ibid)


The question why the CI is binding is not to be answered here, but I think it has become clear that if we have a CI that is real, freedom will be real as well, since it has to be presupposed. But he thinks he does deduce (i.e. in the legal sense of justify) the reality of the CI later. 

All this can be illustrated as follows:

https://i.stack.imgur.com/BB5pA.jpg 

Critique of Practical Reason

This is the most mature moral system of Kant, where he again rearranges his concepts and includes the other transcendental ideas, namely the immortal soul and God, into the system. It may suffice to say that he undertakes a bit of a shortcut here, stating that the CI is a 'fact of reason', i.e. also a fact of experience and therefore real (regarding this relationship see Critique of Pure Reason, A 156|B 195), and so freedom is real as well (5:32). 

Another remarkable difference is that he rejects that the Universal Formula is directly applicable, but needs forms accesable through intuition, i.e. exactly one of the forms mentioned above (he explicitely uses the Formula of Law of Nature).

For the sake of completeness, my slide illustrating this system:

https://i.stack.imgur.com/DzSG1.jpg 
Dogs and cats are often mentioned together, as are knives and forks; in that context opposite simply means the other of a pair; but more, it means the other of a complement.

Knives and forks are used together in eating a sit-down meal at a table; they complement each other.

Cats and dogs are both domestic pets that people keep, and also are the most common pet; the sense of complement here is quite a bit weaker though than in the first example.

Here, opposite is not used in the mathematical sense of inverse; where properties of an inverse are inverse to the properties of the original object.  
There is an interesting point behind your question, and it is broader than just the issue of numbers. The idea is that it is possible to negate a function or set, by complementation, but it is not possible to negate an individual. If x is a variable, then its job is to range over a domain of individuals, so it cannot be negated. 

The logician Peter Geach used this fact to make an important point about the subject/predicate distinction in logic. If we see a sentence like "Alice is happy", how do we know which is the subject and which the predicate? In simple cases we might just observe that 'Alice' names a thing and 'happy' names a property, but in more complex cases, this explanation is not available. Geach's account of subjects and predicates is that a basic sentence can be thought of as a function satisfied by an individual. So "Alice is happy" is Happy(alice) in the same way we write a function as f(x). How do we know it is Happy(alice) and not Alice(happy)? Because if we negate the whole sentence to "it is not the case that Alice is happy" this means "Alice is not-happy"; it doesn't mean "not-Alice is happy".  So we can negate (complement) 'happy' but not 'Alice' identifying it as the predicate. 
Plato, http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0168%3Abook%3D1%3Asection%3D331c Republic, 331c.

The context is the initial discussion of Cephalus' conventional wisdom (see the refernces to Sophocles and Pindar).

Cephalus suggest a naive view of justice, defined as 


  "truthfulness, and returning anything that you may have received from someone else".


With its typical argumentative approach, Socrates suggests a case in which Cephalus’ definition of justice fails: a man has borrowed a weapon from a friend and the friend, after losing his mind, asks that the weapon be returned.

According to Cephalus' definition, the just action is to return the weapon, but this would clearly be the wrong decision.

The gist of the discussion is to set the stage for Socrates' search for the "philosophical" definition of justice: the essence of justice.
(q → ( ¬r ∧ ¬p )) ∧ ¬(( ¬r ∧ ¬p ) → q)

((Hiking is safe on the trail) implies ((berries are not ripe) and (grizzlies have not been seen in the area))) and (((berries are not ripe) and (grizzlies have not been seen in the area)) does not imply (hiking is safe on the trail)).

This captures the notion of necessary but not sufficient: in every case where (hiking is safe) we also have ((berries not ripe) and (grizzlies not seen)), but we cannot say that when ((berries not ripe) and (grizzlies not seen)) we always also have (hiking is safe).
Yes, person A could understand why person B reached a different conclusion.  

Person A might learn that B's line of reasoning incorporated different premises. Here, person A might think that the content of issue X included subissues 1 and 2, but learns that person B believed that X included subissues 1, 2, and 3.   

Or Person A might learn that B relied on the same facts, but that B gave the various facts a different emphasis. Here, persons A and B might have understood issue X in exactly  the same way, but still disagreed on the level of importance that the kingdom's people assign to the issue.  

Person A could understand these sources of disagreement without agreeing with B's conclusion.

  Provided that the MONEY is deposited, the LENDER will get the payment if the WIRE goes through


To analyze the sentence into its components and translate it into the constituent conditional https://legacy.earlham.edu/~peters/courses/log/terms2.htm symbols, it might help to start with a small portion of the sentence. We can read, "provided that" as "if", and it can be helpful to explicitly articulate the "if's" and "then's". So we have the statement:


If the MONEY is deposited, then the LENDER will get the payment.


...and this can be thought of as the proposition:


If M, then L.


...such that M represents the general idea of "money deposit" and L represents the general idea of "lender payment." We can then neatly symbolize the conditional statement like so:


M --> L


...such that the "arrow" indicates a conditional relationship between the two variables, M and L where the former "implies" (or "sets the condition for" etc.) the latter. (1 - see below)



So what to make of the rest of the sentence and how to fit it into symbolic logical notation, "M → L ...if the WIRE goes through"? 

The latter half is also a conditional statement, i.e. "if the WIRE goes through, then the LENDER will get the payment". We can analyze this into "if W, then L" and similarly use the symbols "W → L" - so in short, we've now analyzed the sentence into two propositions that are conditionals resulting in the same consequence:


If MONEY deposit, then LENDER paid.


and


If WIRE goes through, then LENDER paid.


i.e.


M → L
W → L




But how to combine these two conditionals in a way which reflects their relationship as stated above in the ordinary language formulation?

Since both M and W result in L, how about a conjunction?


(M & W) → L


...such that:


If M and if W, then L


This conveys the logical relationships of "If the MONEY is deposited AND if the WIRE goes through, then the LENDER gets paid."

...but is this the relationship as stated in the original sentence?  

Not quite. While it details the separate conditions - money deposited & wire sent - it doesn't really capture the dependency of the wire being sent upon the money getting deposited. (2 - see below)



So, in order to express the chain of conditions, how about something more like so:


"If MONEY gets deposited, then if WIRE gets sent, then LENDER gets
paid."


or


"If MONEY gets deposited, then (if W, then L)."


...which can be reduced to:


If M, then (if W, then L).


...which can be symbolized as:


M → (W → L)


And conveys the logical relationships analyzed in the sentence,


  Provided that the MONEY is deposited, the LENDER will get the payment if the WIRE goes through




(1) Note, there are many different acceptable symbols for representing a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Material_conditional conditional relationship. In this instance the "-->" arrow between two terms is adequate. If, however, you want to use https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Help:Wiki_markup_examples#Special_characters markup language to display a single arrow, try → and you will see: → ("rarr" is for "R"ight "ARR"ow and the "&" ampersand and ";" semi-colon are just for formatting so the markup can be parsed to display the symbols correctly.)  

(2) Of note, https://math.stackexchange.com/a/1742069/349344 the ampersand ( "&" ) is generally no longer used for connective notation and it is common to see "the carrot" ^ or in markup language, ∧ displays "and" as ∧ so likely you'd write the above like so: (M ∧ W) → L
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuzzy_logic Fuzzy logic was proposed as an attempt to provide a logic which works as you say "on a gradient": A logical statement can have a truth value anywhere in the [0,1] interval. 

Completely true statements have a truth value of 1, completely false statements have a truth value of 0, and ambiguous statements have values values in between, depending on "How true" they are. 

For example the statement "the weather is hot" is clearly true if the temperature outside is 50°C, and is clearly false if the temperature is -3° C, but what about 28°C or 23°C ? 

Fuzzy logic would assign a gradient of truth values to the statement "the weather is hot".  On can then assign a truth value of 1 to "the weather is hot" at 50°C, a truth value of 0.75 to "the weather is hot" at 28°C, a truth value of 0.5 to "the weather is hot" at 23°C, etc... 

It should be noted that Fuzzy logic is a subset of a more general classe called Multivalued Logic, and that it was developed in the context of computer science and AI, as a tool to model vagueness in human speech, not in the context of philosophical logic. 
See https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/arendt/#ActFrePlu Action, Freedom, and Plurality in Hannah Arendt:


  or Arendt, action is one of the fundamental categories of the human condition and constitutes the highest realization of the vita activa. [...] The two central features of action are freedom and plurality. By freedom Arendt does not mean the ability to choose among a set of possible alternatives (the freedom of choice so dear to the liberal tradition) [emphasis added] or the faculty of liberum arbitrium which, according to Christian doctrine, was given to us by God. Rather, by freedom Arendt means the capacity to begin, to start something new, to do the unexpected, with which all human beings are endowed by virtue of being born. Action as the realization of freedom is therefore rooted in natality, in the fact that each birth represents a new beginning and the introduction of novelty in the world. 


Thus, freedom is not grounded in rationality: "freedom does not appear in the realm of thought".

It is something "deep", grounded in our inner original self.
Although the point of departure is a bit different, I think that Ludwig Wittgenstein's https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_Certainty On Certainty proposes a resolution to the problem that you describe. Wittgenstein suggested, that there are some "assumptions" that even a radical skeptic must make, if her doubt is to make minimal sense. There must be some rational discourse already in place, in order for rational doubt to get off the ground.


  
  The idealist's question would be something like: "What right have I not to doubt the existence of my hands?" (And to that the answer can't be: I know that they exist.) But someone who asks such a question is overlooking the fact that a doubt about existence only works in a language-game. Hence, that we should first have to ask: what would such a doubt be like? (https://web.archive.org/web/20051210213153/http://budni.by.ru/oncertainty.html On Certainty)
  


So yes, some "assumptions" seem to be inevitable. But these assumptions seem to be inevitable even for a radical skeptic. And to that extent they seem to be less of a problem.
Aristotle discusses celestial music in http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/heavens.2.ii.html On the Heavens (De Caelo) book II part 9. He does not dispute (but also does not show much interest in) the claim that the distances between celestial bodies form harmonious ratios. What he does dispute is the Pythagorean theory that the movements of the stars subsequently produce actual music. He regards the Pythagorean theory, approvingly, as "gracious and original", as well as "melodious and poetical". It is, nevertheless, false.


  From all this it is clear that the theory that the movement of the stars produces a harmony, i.e. that the sounds they make are concordant, in spite of the grace and originality with which it has been stated, is nevertheless untrue ... melodious and poetical as the theory is, it cannot be a true account of the facts.


If the stars produce music, why don't we hear it? The Pythagorean answer, according to Aristotle, was that we do hear it, but since we have always heard it, we can't tell it apart from true silence (which we've never really heard). This is a clever answer, and a possible one in isolation. The problem is that noises have objective effects, beside our subjective hearing. Loud noises shatter stuff, regardless of being or not being heard. And the music of the stars, if there was such, should have been loud enough to shatter everything around us.

Aristotle took this consideration to also support his view that (1) the stars do not move independently, but are fixed on transparent celestial spheres, and that (2) the celestial spheres move in a frictionless medium, an element finer than air.
I'm not sure to correctly interpret your question...

The relevant discussion is about the difference between truth-value gaps and truth-value guts: see G.Priest, https://books.google.it/books?id=rMXVbmAw3YwC&pg=PA127 An Introduction to Non-Classical Logic: From If to Is, 2nd ed., page 127-on.

The three-values logic of Kleene and Lukasiewicz treat the third truth value i as neither true nor false (a truth-value gap), while other logics (like the LP logic, proposed by Priest himself) treat i as both true and false (a truth-value glut).

According to Priest, the concept pf truth-value glut is necessary to treat e.g. the https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/liar-paradox/ Liar Paradox; in this case, the "liar" sentence: ‘this sentence is false’, is both true and false.

In this example we have no vagueness, but a case of a 'real contradictions that is true'.
"Does [Selfish desire has no place in the pure aesthetic experience] mean that purity comes with the consequence of selflessness? That if one is clean and pure they must be selfless?"

No, no, no. the causal relationship is the other way around. It is not the selflessness that allows you to experience purity, but it is the purity of (aesthetic) experience that allows you to become self-less. Purity of (aesthetic) experience happens, when you read a great poem or watch an awesome movie, and you lose you spatio-temporal self and become the person in the poem or the movie. When I finally understood Robert Francis' Pitcher, I lost myself and became the Pitcher for a moment (the poem provided at the end of this post). 

Selflessness, for Blackburn, is not meant to be the opposite to selfishness. Rather it is the sublime self who is able to see things for their intrinsic values, no longer interpreting everything as an instrument to further one's needs and desires. By this way, the sublime self can also experience other values like the goodness. The hitherto self-interested  self comes to understand  that experiencing (doing) the good is intrinsically valuable, just as experiencing the beauty. In other words, the selflessness activated by the aesthetic experience is transmitted into the moral self (other-regarding self). This is why some argue that aesthetics is the mother of ethics (e.g., Marcia Eaton)

The possibility of self-lessness through the aesthetic experience is important to Blackburn since such a possibility allows him to elaborate his projection theory. According to him, the reason that this world is a moral world, despite the absence of moral facts in this world (so-called the analytic world, world inhabited by brute facts), is that our moral values, just like aesthetic values, acquired through language games, are projected (or spread) onto the analytic world.

Pitcher

His art is eccentricity, his aim

How not to hit the mark he seems to aim at,



His passion how to avoid the obvious,

His technique how to vary the avoidance.



The others throw to be comprehended. He

Throws to be a moment misunderstood.



Yet not too much. Not errant, arrant, wild,

But every seeming aberration willed.



Not to, yet still, still to communicate

Making the batter understand too late.
The answer is controversial. Hume, 18th century British philosopher, famously argued that such a possibility is conceivable, that if we are presented with a spectrum of color where some intermediate shade is missing we will be able to imagine the missing shade, even if we never saw it before. Here is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Missing_Shade_of_Blue Hume's missing shade of blue thought experiment:


  "Suppose, therefore, a person to have enjoyed his sight for thirty years, and to have become perfectly acquainted with colours of all kinds, except one particular shade of blue, for instance, which it never has been his fortune to meet with. Let all the different shades of that colour, except that single one, be placed before him, descending gradually from the deepest to the lightest; it is plain, that he will perceive a blank, where that shade is wanting, and will be sensible, that there is a greater distance in that place between the contiguous colours than in any other. Now I ask, whether it be possible for him, from his own imagination, to supply this deficiency, and raise up to himself the idea of that particular shade, though it had never been conveyed to him by his senses? I believe there are few but will be of opinion that he can."


Curiously, this observation goes counter to Hume's own empiricist doctrine that all our ideas come from sense impressions, and are not created by imagination, other than by combining them. But "it is hardly worth altering a general thesis for one exception, which is very much the line Hume himself adopts", according to Jenkins. In the 20-th century Jackson suggested another famous thought experiment about the matter, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_argument#Thought_experiment Mary the color scientist, but came to the opposite conclusion, although admittedly the Jackson's setup is far more unfavorable to Mary than Hume's.:


  "Mary is a brilliant scientist who is, for whatever reason, forced to investigate the world from a black and white room via a black and white television monitor. She specializes in the neurophysiology of vision and acquires, let us suppose, all the physical information there is to obtain about what goes on when we see ripe tomatoes, or the sky, and use terms like 'red', 'blue', and so on. She discovers, for example, just which wavelength combinations from the sky stimulate the retina, and exactly how this produces via the central nervous system the contraction of the vocal cords and expulsion of air from the lungs that results in the uttering of the sentence 'The sky is blue'. [...] What will happen when Mary is released from her black and white room or is given a color television monitor? Will she learn anything or not?"


Jackson's answer is that she will learn, Mary could not have "imagined" colors on her own no matter how much she knows about them. The difficulty with deciding who is right is that it is unclear how exactly we can determine, in actual experiment, what exactly was "imagined", and compare it to what was intended. This is at the heart of the current philosophical debate about the so-called https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qualia qualia, private "feels" or experiences. It is also unclear if we can trust subject's opinion on whether the "imagined" missing shade was the same as the "right" shade presented to her afterwards. Wittgenstein had serious doubts that the talk of private sensations is even meaningful, let alone trustworthy, see https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/32063/how-does-wittgensteins-argument-against-recognizing-private-sensations-work/32066#32066 How does Wittgenstein's argument against recognizing private sensations work? and https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/34219/what-is-the-role-of-sensations-in-wittgensteins-private-language-argument What is the role of sensations in Wittgenstein's private language argument? 

See a discussion of both thought experiments in http://radgeek.com/gt/2004/10/29/HowIGotTheBlue.pdf Johnson's How I Got the Blue. For a modern scientific look at color perceptions see http://imbs.uci.edu/~kjameson/ECST/Bimler_PsychologicalColorSpaceAndColorTerms.pdf Bimler's Psychological Color Space and Color Terms.
From ancient times to the modern day, Aristotle has been interpreted as holding this view. For example, Lactantius, writing around the end of the third century wrote:


  "Plato asserts His monarchy, saying that there is but one God, by whom
  the world was prepared and completed with wonderful order. Aristotle,
  his disciple, admits that there is one mind which presides over the
  world." Lactantius


After investigating this question extensively, Thomas Aquinas wrote:


  "Aristotle’s conclusion is that there is one ruler of the whole
  universe, the first mover, and one first intelligible object, and one
  first good, whom above he called God (1074:C 2544), who is blessed for
  ever and ever." Aquinas


The words of Aristotle themselves also make it clear that his metaphysics involve a belief in the existence of a single God:


  "However, we must discuss this question by beginning with what has
  already been laid down and established. For the first principle and
  primary being is both essentially and accidentally immovable, but it
  causes the primary motion, which is eternal and unique. And since that
  which is moved must be moved by something else, the first mover must
  be essentially immovable, and eternal motion must be caused by an
  eternal mover, and a single motion by a single thing." Aristotle


In fact, Aristotle's theory simply does not admit of the possibility of there being more than one God. This is the basis for which he argues that his theory can explain the dilemma of contraries, such as that held by Empedocles who believed that love and strife are eternal principles in conflict. Aristotle considered such a view absurd, and he believed he avoided this difficulty precisely because there is only one primary mover:


  "And on all other views it follows necessarily that there must be
  something which is contrary to Wisdom or supreme knowledge, but on
  ours it does not. For there is no contrary to that which is
  primary,since all contraries involve matter, and that which has matter
  exists potentially; and the ignorance which is contrary to Wisdom
  would tend towards the contrary of the object of Wisdom; but that
  which is primary has no contrary." Aristotle, Met. 12.1075b


He goes on to argue that a coherent understanding of the universe requires a single governing principle. As you noted, Aristotle seems to hold absolute truth as a presupposition, and any coherent theory about reality can only be harmonized by a belief in one God:


  "Further, in virtue of what the numbers, or soul and body, or in
  general the form and the object, are one, no one attempts to explain;
  nor is it possible to do so except on our theory, that it is the
  moving cause that makes them one. As for those who maintain that
  mathematical number is the primary reality, and so go on generating
  one substance after another and finding different principles for each
  one, they make the substance of the universe incoherent (for one
  substance in no way affects another by its existence or non-existence)
  and give us a great many governing principles. But the world must not
  be governed badly: The rule of many is not good; let one be the
  ruler." Aristotle, Met. 12.1075b-1076a


Vasilis Politis summarizes Aristotle's view on the matter as follows:


  "It is [Aristotle's] view that, strictly, there can only be one
  ultimate cause of rational change in general — only one God. This is
  because what Aristotle is searching for is the ultimate explanation
  and cause of rational change in nature as a whole. But evidently there
  can only be one such whole. So there can only be one ultimate
  explanation and cause of it. It is perhaps above all because there can
  only be one God that God cannot be identical with the inseparable form
  of the outermost heaven. It is true that, in virtue of its spatial
  position, there can only be one outermost heaven. For only one thing
  can be outermost in space, i.e. can bound and delimit everything that
  is in space and indeed space itself." Vasilis Politis

The rule of absorption can be proved via truth table (which is neither a "conditional proof" nor an "indirect proof") like so:

P Q | P ⊃ Q | (P ∙ Q) | P ⊃ (P ∙ Q) | (P ⊃ Q) ≡ [P ⊃ (P ∙ Q)]
-----------------------------------------------------------
0 0 |   1   |    0    |   1         |         1
0 1 |   1   |    0    |   1         |         1
1 0 |   0   |    0    |   0         |         1
1 1 |   1   |    1    |   1         |         1


But, if truth tables presuppose the law of excluded middle, then it would seem that the rule of absorption is not provable within the constraints you've imposed.
Your rephrasings of formulas in words are correct, but in this case moving the quantifier makes no logical difference (classically). You can verify this by converting formulas into equivalent form without implications using A → B = ¬A ∨ B, and then using the fact that quantifiers can be freely moved across conjunction and disjunction as long as the variables they bound are kept distinct, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prenex_normal_form#Implication prenex normal form. Therefore,

∀x[Txi → ∃y(Txy ∧ Vy)] = ∀x[¬Txi ∨ ∃y(Txy ∧ Vy)] 

                        = ∀x∃y[¬Txi ∨ (Txy ∧ Vy)]  = ∀x∃y[Txi → (Txy ∧ Vy)].


In other words, the two "symbolizations" are logically equivalent, although in words the second one sounds more awkward. In some non-classical logics the conversion formula A → B = ¬A ∨ B is invalid, but you do not have to worry about that, I suspect.

However, note that even classically things would be different if you had a quantifier on the premise of the implication rather than on its conclusion: 

∀x[∃y(Txy ∧ Vy) → Txi] is not logically equivalent to ∀x∃y[(Txy ∧ Vy) → Txi]. 

The negation in ¬A ∨ B now prevents one from moving ∃y out.
Especially in introductory logic textbooks, deductive arguments are usually defined something like this:  "the conclusion must be true given the premises" or "it's impossible for the premises to be true and the conclusion false."  Then inductive arguments are defined as arguments that aren't deductive.  Using this definition, the Miracle-Gro argument counts as inductive, because it's possible for the premises to be true (plant A was fertilized, plant B wasn't, plant A flourished, plant B didn't) and the conclusion false (Miracle-Gro doesn't stimulate plant growth).  

If you're asking in the context of an introductory logic course, that answer is probably good enough.  In the rest of this answer, I'll introduce some limitations for the standard definition of inductive and deductive.  

The first limitation is that it doesn't distinguish different kinds of inductive arguments.  Both enumerative induction (the sun rose yesterday, the sun rose 2 days ago, the sun rose 3 days ago, ..., therefore the sun will rise every day) and argument from analogy (Hypatia was a woman, Hypatia was mortal, Hillary Clinton is a woman, therefore Hillary Clinton is mortal) are not-deductive, and are grouped together as "inductive" by the definition.  But there are important and interesting differences between enumerative induction and argument from analogy.  

A second limitation is that the definition places all bad arguments in the inductive category.  Consider a complete non sequitur:  Hillary Clinton lost the election, therefore some cats like to eat fish.  This doesn't pass the test for deduction, so the definition places it in the inductive category.  But it's not even remotely plausible as an argument, which makes it very different from enumerative induction and argument from analogy.  

A third and related limitation has to do with enthymemes, or arguments with an "implicit premise."  Consider this argument:  Hillary Clinton received fewer electoral votes than Donald Trump, therefore Hillary Clinton lost the election.  Taken on its face, the argument is not deductive, because the premise could be true and the conclusion false (if the US had a different electoral system).  But many readers would recognize an implicit premise (roughly, that any candidate who received fewer electoral votes lost the election).  Once that premise is stated explicitly, the argument becomes deductive.  

The problem is that, if implicit premises are allowed, every argument counts as deductive.  Take the argument Hillary Clinton lost the election; if Hillary Clinton lost the election then some cats like to eat fish; therefore some cats like to eat fish.  This is now a deductive argument (and it's even sound!).  

A fourth limitation is that the definition depends on modal assumptions; that is, assumptions about what must be the case or what's impossible.  Consider the argument that this table has mass, therefore this table cannot travel at the speed of light.  Is the argument deductive?  It is if general relativity sets the boundaries on what's possible and impossible.  But that means general relativity is necessarily true, and we typically think that's not the case (in other words, we typically think general relativity is contingently true).  Next consider the argument that I am a bachelor, therefore I am unmarried (a version of one of the standard examples of an "analytic truth").  Whether this argument is deductive depends on whether a certain definition of the term "bachelor" sets boundaries on what must be the case or what's impossible.  But it seems like that definition could be contingent — we might have used the term "bachelor" differently.  

(This limitation also applies to formal logic.  $p \& (p \to q) \to q$ is a tautology only because of the definitions of the operators $\&$ and $\to$, and https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-conditionals/ we could have adopted different standard definitions. See Etchemendy, The Concept of Logical Consequence.)  

Given these limitations of the standard definition, I usually suggest a different approach to my introductory logic students.  Good arguments are ones in which the premises provide good reasons to accept the conclusion.  Then we can talk about different kinds of arguments (modus tollens, enumerative induction, analogy, and so on) and the supporting and undermining conditions for each kind of argument.  So, instead of asking whether the Miracle-Gro argument is inductive or deductive, we focus on asking what makes for a good or bad experimental test of Miracle-Gro.  
Not sure if I like the way you use the word "logic" here, but I think I understand your question. Let me rephrase it for you:

"Do humans use reason or act rationally only in certain situations? For example, does a human use reason or act rationally when he/she falls in love?"

To be honest, it depends what "level" you are looking at.  In many cases (such as falling in love) it does not seem that a person is using reason or acting rationally, but this can appear below the surface. To address your example, it has been shown biologically that the "main goal" of an organism is to keep its genes in the gene pool; that is, to reproduce. So though it may not seem like "falling in love" is a rational action, it is actually a rather effective strategy which the human body uses to increase its chances of eventual reproduction.
Rather getting emotional I would like to give my analysis in a rational way.
Assuming ceteris paribus Situation B  would be preferable.
But ..
In any legal system, the law is taken care in such a way that no innocent should be punished even if they have to let thousands of guilty or malignant go unpunished.
The question is why so?
Because in the given utility theory (by @user76284 ) holds good in a short term and in isolation, but if taken in the aggregate of all such crime (any unwanted act by mass) and long term there will create only chaos. [you can analyse the utility graph gain by Germans during Hitler regime in short term and long term due to action was taken by Him and there are many more examples.]. 
Given the choice, the first priority should be given to Win-Win over Loss-Win or obviously Loss-Loss, independent of the fact how small Gain is.
You can get the same by Nash-equilibrium.
The reason for this particular Platonic anomaly, and generally for all Platonic anomalies, is that he used commonly understood ideas from the cultural storehouse of his time as stand-ins for the often quite different concepts that he wanted to illuminate.  

Platonic Truth, like all Platonic ideals, is a perfect, unchanging, eternal "entity" that exists outside of ordinary reality.  It has only a loose relationship with regular, ordinary, small-T truths, which are always changing.  

This can be seen clearly in Plato's idea of the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noble_lie noble lie which is, in his view, a big-T truth despite being a little-f falsehood.
Aristotle wrote in https://isidore.co/aquinas/Physics1.htm#13 Physica 191a7-8:


  ἡ δὲ ὑποκειμένη φύσις ἐπιστητὴ κατ' ἀναλογίαν. ὡς γὰρ πρὸς ἀνδριάντα χαλκὸς ἢ πρὸς κλίνην ξύλον ἢ πρὸς τῶν ἄλλων τι τῶν ἐχόντων μορφὴν [ἡ ὕλη καὶ] τὸ ἄμορφον ἔχει πρὶν λαβεῖν τὴν μορφήν, οὕτως αὕτη πρὸς οὐσίαν ἔχει καὶ τὸ τόδε τι καὶ τὸ ὄν.
  
  The underlying nature is an object of scientific knowledge, by an analogy. For as the bronze is to the statue, the wood to the bed, or the matter and the formless before receiving form to any thing which has form, so is the underlying nature to substance, i.e. the 'this' or existent. 


St. Thomas Aquinas commentated on this (https://isidore.co/aquinas/Physics1.htm#13 Commentary on Aristotle's Physics lib. 1 lect. 15 [118.]):


  Deinde cum dicit: subiecta autem natura etc., manifestat praemissa principia. Et dicit quod natura quae primo subiicitur mutationi, idest materia prima, non potest sciri per seipsam, cum omne quod cognoscitur, cognoscatur per suam formam; materia autem prima consideratur subiecta omni formae. Sed scitur secundum analogiam, idest secundum proportionem. Sic enim cognoscimus quod lignum est aliquid praeter formam scamni et lecti, quia quandoque est sub una forma, quandoque sub alia. Cum igitur videamus hoc quod est aer quandoque fieri aquam, oportet dicere quod aliquid existens sub forma aeris, quandoque sit sub forma aquae: et sic illud est aliquid praeter formam aquae et praeter formam aeris, sicut lignum est aliquid praeter formam scamni et praeter formam lecti. Quod igitur sic se habet ad ipsas substantias naturales, sicut se habet aes ad statuam et lignum ad lectum, et quodlibet materiale et informe ad formam, hoc dicimus esse materiam primam. 
  
  Hoc igitur est unum principium naturae: quod non sic unum est sicut hoc aliquid, hoc est sicut aliquod individuum demonstratum, ita quod habeat formam et unitatem in actu; sed dicitur ens et unum inquantum est in potentia ad formam. Aliud autem principium est ratio vel forma: tertium autem est privatio, quae contrariatur formae. Et quomodo ista principia sint duo et quomodo tria, dictum est prius. 
  
  Next where he says, ‘The underlying nature ...’ (191 a 8), he clarifies the above-mentioned principles. He says that the nature which is first subject to mutation, i.e., primary matter, cannot be known of itself, since everything which is known is known through its form. Primary matter is, moreover, considered to be the subject of every form. But it is known by analogy, that is, according to proportion. For we know that wood is other than the form of a bench and a bed, for sometimes it underlies the one form, at other times the other. When, therefore, we see that air at times becomes water, it is necessary to say that there is something which sometimes exists under the form of air, and at other times under the form of water. And thus this something is other than the form of water and other than the form of air, as wood is something other than the form of a bench and other than the form of bed. This ‘something’, then, is related to these natural substances as bronze is related to the statue, and wood to the bed, and anything material and unformed to form. And this is called primary matter.This, then, is one principle of nature. It is not one as a ‘this something’, that is, as some determinate individual, as though it had form and unity in act, but is rather called being and one insofar as it is in potency to form. The other principle, then, is the nature [ratio) or form, and the third is privation, which is contrary to the form. And how these principles are two and how they are three was explained above.’ 


Also, he uses a bronze statue analogy in his short work https://isidore.co/aquinas/DePrincNaturae.htm De Principiis Naturæ.
In the neo-Platonic tradition, from Plato, through Plotinus, and from there integrated into mainstream Christian and Islamic theology, good is the only true reality, and evil is just the absence of good, just as darkness is the absence of light, and cold is the absence of heat.  

But there are other religious and philosophical traditions in which goodness is taken to be the default state, and evil is a real but negative imposition on top of it, in which case you could arguably call good the absence of evil.  There are also dualist traditions, such as Zoroastrianism and Manichaeism (which continues to influence some variants of Christianity) in which good and evil are both real but are equal (or nearly equal) and opposite forces.  

The question of how to behave alters based on your assumptions.  In a neo-Platonic world, you focus on the good, because the evil is illusionary, whereas in the Zoroastrian tradition, evil becomes something that must be actively driven out.  It should also be mentioned that there are traditions, such as Taoism, in which neither good nor evil is an important concept (and which is instead focused on "balance" and "imbalance" between opposing, but not morally opposed forces), as well as others in which both good and evil are seen as being largely illusionary (a concept which also informs Nietzsche's book Beyond Good and Evil).

  moral rights


"Rights" aren't a moral or ethical category. They are a juridical category.


  to mourn


To "mourn", on the other hand, is psychological, not moral or juridical, phenomenon.

So, the "moral right to mourn" is a conflation of disparate concepts, which becomes meaningless at all three - juridical, moral, psychological - levels.

Juridically, there is nothing that can be done to prevent people from mourning. If they think that the defeat of their preferred soccer team is something to mourn, more than the death of thousands of people in a war on the other side of the planet, there is nothing to be done about. What would we do? Jail them? Tell them they are going to hell? Dose them some chemical that will make them unable to mourn?

Morally, you can condemn whatever you want. It doesn't affect the rights of others. You may think that those who see too much television lose their moral grounds to complain about the moral decadence of society, for television is hugely responsible for such decadence. They will still watch TV and complain about the decaying mores of the commonwealth. Both things are, and should be, legal rights; a society in which either or both were forbidden would be horrible to live in.

Psychologically, there is nothing that can be done about mourning or not mourning. One may think that I should mourn the extinction of the pox virus; but the fact is that if I am not, for any reason, psychologically attached to such virus, I won't mourn its extinction, and may be indifferent or happy about it. It's possible, I guess, to shame people into pretending that they are unhappy about a given event, but it is not possible to make them unhappy if they are not.

And this - shaming people - is what this idea is probably about. It is not that we should not mourn the passing of our grandmother just because we just ate a barbecue; it is that we should not have eaten the barbecue, for we should think of the poor cow as we think of our grandmother. But as some of the comments above pointed out, the vast majority of human beings do not think a cow is equivalent to a human being, and consequently won't be able to act as if it was.



Evidently, the idea of an all-encompassing equivalence among all living beings is pragmatically unsustainable. All human beings, vegetarians and animal-rights activists included, are "especiesist" - they do not think killing a vegetal is the same as killing an animal, they do not think killing an insect - or any invertebrate - is the same as killing a mammal, they rarely think that amphibians, fish, or lizards, are on the same standing as birds and mammals, and more often than not discriminate among mammals - who does empathise with a bat or a hyaena as much as with a panda, for instance?



Talking about empathy, it is often repeated that a psychopath is someone who is devoid of empathy. But empathy is a complicated thing; as someone else put it, if you break your leg, do you want a physician who painfully pulls it into the right position, or a physician who hugs you and cries together? "Empathy" can be paralising in this sence. If no empathy makes one a psychopath, unqualified empathy may turn one hysteric.

Most of us are by far more empathetic towards our own relatives, friends, neighbours, etc, than towards people we do not know and live far away. And the idea that you should not mourn your grandmother because you didn't properly mourn the victims of a hurricane in Texas or an earthquake in Mexico is somewhat disturbing - at some point, all-encompassing empathy veers dangerously in the direction of no empathy at all.
The statement "I have 9 toes" is true because they have 9 toes. If they then said "I have 10 toes", that would also be true, because they have 10 toes.

Note that I am assuming that "having a toe" means that the toe is attached to the person's body, and that I am also assuming that the person has 10 toes attached to their body. You said that the person "never lost a toe", but this point is completely irrelevant to the question because you didn't say how many toes they were born with. Were they born with 9 toes?

I met a super-hot Japanese girl from Hiroshima who has 10 toes. She was born with 12 "foot fingers" (as she called them), but her parents gave a doctor permission to cut 2 off soon after she was born.

Someone else said that "I have 9 toes" is an "imprecise statement". I agree that it is an imprecise statement, but not because the person only told you about 9 of their 10 toes.

"I have 9 toes" is an imprecise statement because the word "have" is ambiguous. Does the person "have" 9 toes attached to their body? Or do they "have" 9 toes in their fridge? etc

"I have 10 toes" is also an imprecise statement for the same reason. So since they are both "imprecise statements", this does not distinguish them and is somewhat irrelevant to the question. It does give some interesting information which is loosely related to the question, but it clearly does not clarify your confusion. I'm only mentioning it to undo the harm done by the person who said it.

Regardless of all of this jabber, the statement "I have 9 toes" is true, and the statement "I have 10 toes" would also be true, and the statement "I have 11 toes" would be false.

A statement can never be "partially" true/false. If your interpretation of the statement is unclear (which seems to be the case here), then either the terms have not clearly been defined, or you do not understand the terms.

When we see an unclear statement, we often try to make assumptions. For your question, I think most people would make the assumptions that I made: that the person has 10 toes attached to their body etc. After making assumptions about the unclear parts, the statement can only ever be either true or false.

In cases where the statement is unclear but no assumption can be made, there can be no "statement" in your mind for you to consider whether it is true or false. For example the statement "it is red", you don't know what I mean by "it", so you can't determine whether it is a true or false statement. But this does not mean the statement is not either true/false. You are only unable to determine whether it is true or false because you don't have enough information, and you can't make assumptions about unclear terms.

Note that we make many assumptions that we may not even be aware about. Your question appears to be more of a "riddle" than a question, but I am assuming it is a legitimate question and not some kind of wordplay.
Socrates preached to the Athenian young that those with governing power should have the knowledge of the Good. To him, a person obtains this knowledge when she  realizes that this world is merely a shadow of the real world. The cave fable of Plato illustrate this idea. This view of Socrates is called  philosopher kingship. Plato's republic and Aristotle's aristocracy were examples to embody this view that knowledge is political power. To arrive at this view, Socrates assumes that there is the absolute truth and some humans can access the truth.

Historically speaking,  Socrates, with this notion of absolute truth, tried to refute the going, powerful view of the sophists who denied the absolute truth. Their intellectual godfather, Protagoras, famously stated that "Man is the measure of all things." The saying is interpreted as meaning that truth is what each individual construes. Another important sophist,  Gorgias, moved this truth relativism idea further to truth nihilism. According to him, "Nothing exists; even if existence exists, it is inapprehensible to humans; even if existence is apprehensible, it certainly cannot be communicated or explained to others." 

Their differing views on truth directly influenced their answers to the question, "Who should have the political power?" Socrates' answer was that only those with the knowledge of absolute truth should rule. Socrates' answer meant a refutation of democracy since, to him, 'demo' meant the stupidity of the crowd. To the sophists, on the other hand, knowledge was relative and possibly non-existent, and, in this case, each and every citizen should have a political say. The answer by the sophists, then, was the affirmation of going Athenian democracy. 

And the rest, the fate of Socrates, is history.
Many of the problems that we see "repeat" were not solved to begin with.  These are difficult intractable issues like balancing liberty of the individual with the needs of society to be protected from the individual.  Justice for the individual or minority as contrasted with justice for society.  Not to mention Justice vs. mercy, or beauty vs. utility and so on.  It is often not so much that history is repeated, as that the issues remain because there are no easy, obvious answers.  We wrestle with such questions in philosophy and hope to improve.
The fallacy of affirming the consequent can be set out formally : 

p → q

q



Therefore p

We cannot validly infer the antecedent 'p' from the conditional schema and the affirmation of the consequent 'q'. 

The conditional could be true ('If p then q') and the consequent, 'q', true. Yet 'p' could be false. This would violate the rule that a falsehood cannot be validly inferred from truth(s) :

If p then q (true)
q           (true)



p           (false)

In an obvious example, take : 

If it is raining, then the pavements are wet (true)
The pavements are wet                        (true)



Therefore it is raining                      (false)

'If it is raining, then the pavements are wet' - true conditional. 'The pavements are wet' - true consequent. They really are wet. But it isn't raining - false antecedent. The pavements are wet because a water main has burst.

Hope this helps, makes things a bit clearer : it shows that your question was
spot on. Your logical instincts are sound.
Yes, every y instantiates (Fy implies P):

Choose any y at all.

We are given that ((Exists x: Fx) implies P).
Then either P is true or (Exists x: Fx) is false.

Assume P is true.
Then (Fy implies P), because anything implies true.

Otherwise, (Exists x: Fx) is false.
Therefore Fy is false for our y.
Then (Fy implies P), because false implies anything.

I think that defining "now" as the time lapsed from one planck second to the next is not the best definition. Afterall, a planck second is only the time it takes for light to travel in a vacuum the smallest meaningful distance. That means that half of a planck second exists, just nothing, literally nothing can happen in that time period. For humans, the smallest meaningful time scale biologically would probably be 1/60 seconds which is the maximum limit of human vision. So long as the people that "live in the now" do something meaningful with each meaningful moment that they have, they are justified in their doing. But the length of a meaningful moment differs for everyone, so it's still an open-ended answer.
Unfortunately, there's a problem with your example. Aristotle does not think artifacts (here meaning objects that people make) are hylomorphic substances.

For Aristotle, the most central examples are living things (but there are others). So for instance, a tree is something that is following the tree-pattern (or form or essence) and that is organizing lots of matter towards that pattern -- turning it into root, branch, leaf, fruit, etc.

Or a giraffe. It's eating stuff and turning that stuff (the hyle) into giraffy-organized stuff.

Transferred to your artifact example, you're right that the car shape is the "form" of it and that the clay is working as the "matter." But ...


hyle is completely unformed matter (it's more a limit concept than something we ever encounter).
morphe is more than just the shape something happens to be in. It's the shape and the unifying principle that the thing has.


So clay is a kind of weird mixture of dirt and other things rather than completely unformed matter, and while you've pounded the clay into a car shape, that doesn't make it a car.

Put another way, the clay car is going to break down over time and lose that kind of car-shaped nature as it gets battered. It doesn't resist this in the same way as a child would.

A real car doesn't fare much better because it's just a lot of matter we have forced together to do something for us.

There are others who have extended his account to artifacts, but he explicitly claims that they are not included.

(See more here:

https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/39548/artifacts-as-substances-in-aristotelian-metaphysics Artifacts as substances in Aristotelian metaphysics

Also see: https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/25260/hylomophism-as-the-foundation-of-matter-how-true-can-this-be-explain Hylomophism as the foundation of matter, how true can this be. explain)
I'm not following the "imminent" and "clay" analogy.  About the God or Creative intelligence of the Universe...  It seems that people assume they understand what it is and what is going on and they are sure that whatever their conception is cannot possibly exist, or they are sure that it must exist. The naysayers are often just as rigid and certain of their conception of the world as any fanatical religious person.  I'm not sure that high levels of certainty about it, either way, is justified or makes sense.  It seems that they would need to have a conception of what it is to say that it does not exist.  Perhaps whatever they are assuming about it is incorrect. It could be one of those possibilities that we just can't rule out. There are lots of little possibilities that we just can't rule out. There could be something going on that we have no way of conceiving for some reason. Not knowing for sure could be part of a test.  It makes me suspicious though something is going on even though I'm not consciously aware of what it is right now.  Even if you don't know, you can act "as if" there is something beautiful and divine in the universe, whatever it might be.  If it does exist, I love it, because this really is a beautiful and amazing world.  When I accept that as a possibility it can be very beautiful, and it can be an adaptive coping mechanism for many people, so I don't discourage people from believing in it. Although sometimes I change my mind about it depending on how things are going and my mood.  

If this life were some an ethics test to see what your actual nature is or how you might respond to this situation, it would seem that not knowing for sure could be an essential element of the test, couldn't it? That could be why we are blocked everywhere we go from having the answer or only have a little trickle of hints and ongoing mysteries. People behave differently when they know that they are being watched and evaluated.  That could be a little clue. 

For all you know you haven't been put in a world simulator 20 minutes ago in some future world with all your memories implanted and so forth, and you are being given all sorts of little ethics tests as part of a job interview or something. You could be a robot and scientists in some other world are observing whether you are safe to exist in their real world. Or it could be an ethics test for the scientists, and there is something above them testing to see how they would behave if they thought they had the power to make a consciousness. What sorts of things would they consider when creating life?  How much care and thought would you like your Creator to put into your existence if there is one? It could be a game you have to figure out.  Perhaps it is some form of entertainment or a learning module.  

We don't know, or perhaps I should say, I don't know.  I don't know whatever you know. We or I can only speculate about these sorts of things right now.  The possibilities are endless, and it seems to be a similar thing with the idea of a Creator or creative intelligence behind the universe.  If there is something that could create this world and everything, it seems it would beyond our present capacity or normal level of consciousness to comprehend whatever that is. If it did exist, it could make itself known or not known at any time, and even if the answer were right in front of you, you might not see it if it didn't want you to see it or you might forget about it. There is so much that people assume.

It does seem very suspicious though sometimes and it does feel as though there is a beautiful, powerful, loving presence with me that occasionally makes itself known to me, so I don't rule it out. Beautiful things like music, love, art, dogs, consciousness, and so on all seem in some ways like clues that there is something incredible and beyond my current comprehension going on.  I don't know what it is. It could be a little flood of chemicals in my brain or a delusion, but the experience of the presence does seem to happen in response to things I am thinking about, and I like the idea of it. It feels incredible when it happens. It is a distinct experience for me, so I act as if it is something--a little imaginary friend in my mind perhaps, a helpful Jiminy Cricket who applauds good things. There is nothing wrong with that.  I'm not religious about it though.  Many people report that it is helpful.  It seems to like it when I think about it or talk to it privately in my mind. Sometimes I have a few choice words for it when it doesn't do what I want though.

But the way things sometimes unfold just seems to be a giveaway, and thinking about the mysteries of the world can lead to that sort of thinking, but you can't be sure. There is much conflicting information to sort through, and there are countless possibilities out there that can confuse us and possibly misdirect us.  That seems to be the game. So I keep an open mind about it.

Ax = x is drawn by Alma
Bx = x is drawn by Bert
Cx = x is a circle
Lxy = x is larger than y



1) Ǝxy[Ax & Ay & Cx & Cy & x≠y & ∀z[(Az & Cz) → (z=x ∨ z=y)]]
2) Ǝx[Ax & ~Cx & ∀y[(Ay & ~Cy) → y=x]]
3) ~∀x[Ax → Cx]
4) ∀x[(Ax & Cx) → Ǝy[By & Cy & Lxy]]
5) Ǝx[Ax & Cx & ∀y[(By & Cy) → Lxy]]
6) ~∀x[(Ax & Cx) → ∀y[(By & Cy) → Lxy]]

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kripke_semantics Kripke models can be used to prove that a formula is not valid.

Reagrading your example, this means, to show that the antecedent: (p & q → (p → q)) is true in w (the "actual" world) and the consequnr □(p → q) is not, i.e. (p → q) is false in some world w' accessible from w (i.e. such that wRw').

If q is false in w (written: w ⊮ q) we have that p & q is false in w, and thus (p & q → (p → q)) is true.

And if p is true, we have that (p → q) is false in w. 

If the "accessibility" relation R is reflexive, i.e. wRw, we have that (p → q) is not true in every w' such that wRw', and this implies that □(p → q) is false. 



If instead you have to "evaluate" the truth value of a formula at a specific world, with an assignment of truth values to atoms, e.g.


  w ⊩ { p,q }


in this case we simply to apply the semantical specifications.

Clearly, w ⊩ p & q and w ⊩ p → q, and thus w ⊩ (p & q → (p → q)), and so on. 

The accessibility relation is needed in order to assess the modal opeartor □; we have that :


  w ⊩ □p if and only if w' ⊩ p for all w' such that wRw'.

We could go through the permutations of Platonism, nominalism, intuitionism, empiricism, and fictionalism. The guts of the question is whether, if Platonism is true, we can and do discover mathematical truths. 

Platonism is very roughly the view that 'there is a realm of mind-independent mathematical objects (sets, numbers) whose properties mathematicians attempt to describe' ((P. Kitcher, 'The Nature of Mathematical Knowledge, Oxford, 1984, 58). In positing a mind-independent realm, Platonism is a form of realism. There are non-Platonic forms of mathematical realism, which is why 'realism' appears in the list, but I avoid them here since the question centres on Platonism, or Platonic realism, specifically. 

Mathematical objects are abstract in the sense that they do not have spatio-temporal locations (Kitcher, 58) How we are to gain knowledge of them is not clear; causal knowledge is ruled out since abstract objects cannot enter into causal relations with our minds or anything else (Kitcher, 59). However, since mathematical objects belong to a mind-independent reality, any knowledge we can gain about them is discovery, not invention. If we could invent them, they would not be mind-independent. 

Nominalism relies on convention, an agreement (tacit or explicit) to use mathematical notation in certain ways. There is no greater depth to mathematics than that. If convention involves invention, then nominalism involves mathematical invention. Empiricism and fictionism support invention in different ways from each other and from nominalism. Mozibur needs to get clearer about the particular view that he wants to oppose to, and contrast with, Platonism. This just needs time and inquiry. 

Kitcher's book, cited above, is helpful as are P. Benacerraf & H. Putnam, eds, 'Philosophy of Mathematics', 2nd ed. (1984) and much more recently Mark Colyvan, 'An Introduction to the Philosophy of Mathematics' (2012) and S. Shapiro, 'Thinking about Mathematics' (2001). 

Plato in the 'Republic' (VII, 532a-b, 534b-c) sees the best of all things - the Good - as existing separately in the Form of the Good (auto to agathon). The Form of the Good is a separate entity, transcendent of space and time; and everything else that is good to any degree is so by virtue of its 'imitation' of the Good. 
Aristotle  (Nicomachean Ethics 1.6; Eudemian Ethics 1.8) criticises the Platonic Form of the Good. There are many things that are good, he explains : a quantity can be good, a quality can be good, a place can be good, a position can be good, a relation can be good, a time can be good. But there is no credibility in holding that the goodness of a time has anything in common with the goodness of a place or of a quantity. There cannot be a common property of goodness which all these diverse things share. What makes a place good is one thing, what makes a time good is another. 
Aristotle differs from Plato in this way and, in what logically follows from this, in denying that the Platonic good exists at all. There is and could be no Form of the Good. 
But he does believe that 'the good, that is, the best' (to agathon kai to ariston' - 'Metaphysics', 12.10) is real. It does exist, only it is nothing like Plato's Form of the Good (even if that did exist). At 'Nicomachean Ethics', I.1, he says : 

If, then, there is some end of the things we do, which we desire
for its own sake (everything else being desired for the sake of this),
and if we do not choose everything for the sake of something else
(for at that rate the process would go on to infinity, so that our
desire would be empty and vain), clearly this must be the good and
the chief good. [tr. Ross]
What we desire purely for its own sake is 'eudaimonia', happpiness or (better) well-being or human flourishing.
Aristotle's view is that human beings have certain characteristic activities and that eudaimonia - our good - consists in exercising those activities as perfectly as possible. In doing so we fulfil our 'ergon' or function. 
Our ergon or function is a practical life informed by reason. This leads to the doctrine of the mean (we observe the mean when e.g. we act courageously and not on the one hand in a cowardly way or on the other foolhardily). Phronesis or practical wisdom yields knowledge of the (rational) mean in our actions. Reason is capable of various forms of theoretical and not merely practical development, however : scientific knowledge, intuitive understanding of first principles not least. 
One caveat is that Aristotle seems to be divided between a practical 'take' on the good - that it involves a practical life informed by reason - and a different, contemplative view developed or sketched in 'Nicomachean Ethics', X. Here contemplation (theoria) is projected as the ideal life. This is a crux in Aristotelian interpretation and can't properly be examined here. 

Yes, it is a thought experiment that is supposed to convey a deeper meaning. That being we can't prove (which is a problematic term in empirical science because of the way it is used in mathematics is not the same) anything about empirical reality, especially that which we have no evidence for. It's along the lines of "absence of evidence isn't evidence of absence". Meaning just because we don't have evidence for something existing doesn't mean it doesn't exist.

We can't prove Russell's teapot doesn't exist (maybe we can now due to developments in astronomical observational techniques), we can't prove we weren't created 30 seconds ago with all of our memories implanted, we can't prove we aren't in a simulation, and so on. Russell and those after him use this type of example usually in the frame of metaphysical debates about deities. If there is no evidence for Russell's teapot existing why believe it does? And similarly, if there is the same amount of empirical evidence for a deity existing, why believe one does? Those who have highly subjective or personal experience or reasons for believing in deities would make claims to the contrary. However, the analogy is applicable to anything we believe or think is the case about perceptual reality. So the whole issue can be a bit vague and it depends upon what axioms you start with and what initial assumptions you make about what "reality" is. If people can't agree on that starting point, any further interlocution will be unproductive.
Before answering should, we should look at can a person be punished for disobeying a law they find immoral. The answer is (surprisingly) not always yes.

Many states have provisions in their laws that allow people special dispensations for religious observance, for instance. Additionally, when Australia briefly experimented with conscription during the Vietnam War, it still respected the rights of Conscientious Objectors.

Why? Well in the first case, laws are there for the protection of the State and its citizens, not as an alternate to religious belief. That's not a carte blanche exemption; if your religion allows human sacrifice the state can still call that murder. If your religion allows you to beat other family members, the state can still call that assault. Ultimately, your law-defying practice cannot exempt you from impacting others and the boundary condition for that line will be set by the courts on a case by case basis.

This in turn demonstrates the importance of strong separation of Church and State. It is the state's job to protect and care for the populace; it is the church's role to protect and care for the individual (or at least their soul). When you get right down to it, they're two different things and will sometimes be at odds with each other.

A thought experiment; let's say that your country has (for some reason irrelevant to this discussion) a real problem with genetic diversity. The wrong people have been marrying and that means that there are some problem recessive genes causing massive medical issues for the country and it has been decided by scientists that in 3 generations (unless something is done) the population of the country will be simply unviable. Birth rates are already at an all time low and the nation is in serious trouble.

So; the country quickly enacts a law stating that from here on in, EVERY woman of child bearing age will have a minimum of three children, each to a different father. It's now illegal to have more than one child to the same father, no matter how many children you have after that.

Legally, it's a responsible and measured action to protect the state. Morally, it's state-forced adultery.

Can people be punished for disobeying this law? Most certainly, and there's a compelling argument that the state is obliged to do so for its own protection. Should people be punished for disobeying this law? Not necessarily. Just like with national service, if you have a legitimate moral objection to a specific act (killing or adultery respectively) then it doesn't make sense for the state to take action against you. In the case of national service, the army probably doesn't want pacifists in the first place. In the case of cross-breeding, making an example of people with strong moral objections will only foment revolt.

We rely on the state for mutual protection and services. The state builds our roads, provides us with police to protect us against malcontents, and in most cases provides a welfare safety net and health services. It supplies a military whose role it is to defend us from our enemies and creates laws that best meet the needs of the citizenry to make the country prosperous and safe. The deal we make with our country is that we will support it in those endeavours by agreeing to be bound to the laws it makes.

By comparison, our choice of religion (and by extension our moral code) is personal, and the decision to obey a law in violation to our morals (or hold our own morals inviolate in defiance of the state) is also personal. An enlightened state will realise this and provide some safeguards that allow a small measure of flexibility where this can be an issue.

In theocratic countries (countries where church and state are the same thing) one may argue that this issue doesn't actually arise, but I'd argue that you cannot serve two masters; either you will be great at supporting the state, at the potential expense of the individual, or vice versa, or some mix in between.

Ultimately, the biggest problem with allowing people to violate the law on grounds of their moral code is that everyone has a unique interpretation of their own morals. What would be the point of laws at all if every law could be safely ignored by virtue of a moral code? In such a world, religions are effectively in charge of things and their agenda cannot be to preserve the state which is the true role of government.

That said, the option of civil disobedience is a personal choice, and one that should not be taken lightly. If one goes down that path, it should be because the needs of the state have been taken properly into account against the personal impact and still be seen as wanting. In the vast majority of circumstances, that won't be the case.
Natural justice is technical terminology for the rule against bias (nemo iudex in causa sua) and the right to a fair hearing (audi alteram partem).

Yes, natural justice is used in practice when setting the framework for almost all modern laws, which would by extension indirectly force the overseeing judge or legal power in any legal matter to follow this “duty to act fairly”. Most simply because the framework they follow most often was built on top of this idea. 
Identity is not merely emergent, because it is not coherent enough to constitute a tower of realizations.  Although it is multiply realized, it is not just realized at different levels of complexity.  It is realized multiply at every level of complexity, and higher level realizations do not supervene upon others.

I am a legal entity, a mind, a body, a collection of particles, etc.  But I am multiple legal entities -- one for every legal contract into which I have entered.  I can jointly and severally be parts of various groups and there is not some substrate on which those memberships are determined other than their own simple statement.  I am multiple minds and bodies, past and future.  And I am ambiguously a trail of particles across time, but which ones are really me is always ambiguous -- do I have a shirt, or is the shirt part of me when I wear it?

You might want to look at this 'monadically' in the sense of Leibniz or early Whitehead.  The monad exists as the collection of all its effects on everything else.  This allows each particle to be a monad, and for larger collections of things that have traceable effects in composite to also be monads.  Identity applies at many levels and in many layers.

Whitehead argues that the imposition of static identity based upon physical composition is part of our mechanization of our sense of identity.  You are focused upon the material identity.  He argues for the primacy of the notion of an https://books.google.com/books?id=Npq_qnqwYOwC&pg=PA166&lpg=PA166&dq=science%20and%20the%20modern%20world%20organic&source=bl&ots=LT7NE1oFcF&sig=cpi2qpMSYjc5LURs2g9vzNtKNSQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjRpO7-oeDYAhURJKwKHRvGA88Q6AEISDAG#v=onepage&q=science%20and%20the%20modern%20world%20organic&f=false organism.  When that organism has intelligence, his notion of organism comes very close to the modern psychoanalytic notion of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersubjectivity intersubjectivity.

In a more organic view, things really cohere through procedural identity.  An entity does not persist, but reiterates its roles in various circumstances.  It is more important that my car is the thing that is available for me to drive, and for which I take a given set of responsibilities, and otherwise rely upon in various ways, than it is that it is made up of a given set of atoms, even in sequence over time.  (Ask https://phish.net/song/contact/lyrics Phish.)

Identity obtains when one enters into relations with other things that have identities.  Each thing is identical to itself in the sense that it has its own set of relationships and no other, and in basically no other way.  We are made up of different particles, we occupy different spaces, we change both phsyically and psychologically across time, etc., etc. etc.

Identity establishes my assignment to various categories in different natural kinds, which, as Quine points out, are themselves incompletely separable.  So identity, like existence is not really a property, much less one that can be clarified to the point of representing an emergent phenomenon.
In Plato's 'Apology' Socrates tells the court : 

... If you say to me, 'Socrates, this time we will not follow Anytus but will
 let you go on condition that you no longer spend your time on this inquiry
 and stop philosophizing; if you are caught doing this again, you shall die'-
 if you were to acquit me on this condition, I would reply: 'Men of Athens,
 I honour and love you, but I shall obey the god rather than you and as long
 as I breathe and have the capacity I shall never cease philosophizing..
 (29 c 6-d ).

The background is that Socrates is not that Socrates upholds a general right of freedom of conscience (as we might express it). He cites two instances in which he has disobeyed the state but not exactly its laws : (1) when he spoke out the wholesale trial of the generals of Arhinousai (32b) and (2) when he would not arrest Leon of Salamis (32c-d). 

These cases deserve mention but they are not the heart of the matter. For that we need to track our way to the Delphic Oracle.  Socrates takes the answer given by the oracle of Delphi to Chairephon's question as knowledge that the god has chosen him to educate the citizens of Athens out of their ignorance (23 b). He could not give up the practice of philosophy - his method of education - without defying the god (30a 6-7). 

There is nothing like a modern appeal to conscience here. No adherence to personal moral judgement is involved, as in the case of Conscientious Objectors in the two World Wars. Socrates believes that his mission to educate and chase out ignorance is the choice of the god. 

But what is Socrates' famous 'divine and mysterious something' (31 c 8), sometimes called his 'inner voice' ? Is this not conscience ? Not at all. It is 'the sign of the god' (40 b i)). It is a unique 'voice' communicated to Socrates by the god. It has no internal source or origin. 

'Unique' matters vitally. Nobody else has Socrates' divine mission. He is on his own, the one and only gadfly appointed by the god (30e). Under the sacredness of his  mission he will annoy, criticise, resist and refuse the state if it crosses the path of his divine mission. 

It is only in pursuit of his divine mission, and any ban of his practising philosophy, that Socrates will defy the state and perform his gadfly role. Beyond that role he shows considerable - indeed, self-sacrificing - respect for the state and the law. In the 'Crito' Socrates argues that it would be wrong for his to try to escape from prison and evade the penalty of the law. 

He gives three reasons. (1) The organised life of the state or polis would be undermined if citizens decided at will to defy the laws and the courts (50b); (2) the laws have protected Socrates and here is pay-back time. He rpresents himself as like a child under the discipline of adults (50c - 51c); and (3) Socrates accepts the penalty if he has not been able to persuade the state and its courts of their errors (51e - 52a). 

There is no inconsisency between the 'Apology' (the trial) and the 'Crito' (Socrates' time in prison prior to execution). Even in prison Socrates continues with his educational mission, engaging in philosophical argument. The state has not blocked this sacred duty. 
Interesting question. I should say that 'John tells lie' is context-dependent. 

LIARS

1 John says, 'I did not steal the book'. The police search his room and find the book'. 'John says lies', says the police officer referring only to Jack's prior statement. 'In the specific moment', in your phrase.

2 'Jack may have said that he is a top executive but you can't trust him about his personal life. He might be telling the truth or he might not. Jack tells lies about his personal life when it suits him. So you've got it, Jack says lies'.

3 'Casey told me she returned the bike and paid his rent. And she told me she speaks Russian, German, Italian, Bengali and Japanese. She lied across the piece. I see it clearly now. Casey is a habitual liar whose word can never be trusted about anything. Casey says lies - she regularly lies about so many things'. 

4 'You've heard of the Truth Serum ? Well, Jordan has had the Lies Serum. She says lies - she always lies about everything'. (Such uniform lying would be pretty unusual if it were literally true. Hence the SCIFI scenario.)

Different contexts, different meaning for 'X says lies'. 

HANDS

5 As to humans and fingers, we are dealing here, aren't we, with stereotypes (as Hilary Putnam calls him) or standard cases ? The normal, standard, properly developed tiger has four legs : but there are three-legged tigers whose genetic development has deviated. (Putnam's example.) It's the same with the human hand. This will normally, standardly, develop five fingers but some human hands grow six and others four and some, none.  

6  The usual idiom, I think, is 'The tiger has four legs, the human hand has five fingers'. This is accurate to the stereotype. 'All humans have five fingers' is not true and I for one, among very many, would not be inclined to make this statement. (Unless, of course, I have had the Lies Serum !) It is a loose way of expressing the stereotype. 

Reference : H. Putnam, 'The Meaning of Meaning' (1971). 
The empiricist in me tells me that the answer to your question is no.

I love my wife in a way that I've never loved another person before. She loves me in a way that is very different to the way I love her because we're very different people.

I can safely say that the way I love my wife has nothing to do with previous experience per se; it's not an amalgam of other forms of love I've experienced or even seen in a movie; it's something new. It's also something different to the way I experience the love from my wife.

As a mathematician, I still believe that Formalism and a static universe are the simplest way to define the universe, and my arguments against free will have caused more than a few heated arguments in this forum already. But as an empiricist, I know that my love for my wife is given freely and experienced as something new to my existence.

Is part of that emotion? Sure, and by extension some of it ties to biological function. Is some of it experience? Definitely, and that means that with the larger range of life's experience at my time in life, I have a greater understanding of (and appreciation for) both my imperfections, and those of my wife. That makes me love her even more.

All I can say is that from my personal experience, what I feel and how I express it is different to anything I've experienced in my own life and that has to mean that love is capable of being unique and outside the amalgam of experience that one has prior to engaging in that love.

That this is still possible when one has a larger foundation of knowledge and experience to rely upon only makes that sensation of love even richer.

To conclude, I think it's actually backwards; I think our love for others is what expands our capacity to understand the experience of others loving us. We learn to appreciate how they love us more deeply because the love we feel gives us context for their actions that facilitates our capacity to understand it on a deeper level than is possible if we're incapable of love.

In that sense, perhaps love is the mysterious injection of non-determinism that physicists and mathematicians have been searching for all this time...
Other than the fact that you cannot use predicates as arguments of other predicates, you are also interpreting the sentence by saying that the rectangle that Anna is painting when she is painting a square is that the very square ... which is of course a very reasonable interpretation of that sentence, but if we go for a more literal interpretation, then we need say that if there is some square that she is painting, then she is painting some rectangle (which may or may not be that square ... indeed, when in English we use 'rectangle' we may be trying to emphasize that it is not a square, otherwise we would have said square). So, using that interpretation, we get:

Ex (Sx&Pax) -> Ex (Rx&Pax)

(E being the existential quantifier)
I suspect that Petitot is misremembering and interpolating. Husserl did generally consider (formal) metaphysics to be the doctrine of individuation. For example, in a 1918 letter to Weyl, thanking him for a copy of Das Kontinuum he writes:


  "Finally a mathematician shows appreciation for the necessity of phenomenological modes of treatment in all questions of clarification of fundamental concepts... of a philosophically based mathesis universalis and this again linked to a new formal metaphysics (of the a priori and general doctrine of individuation) – on which I have worked for years and continue to do so."
  [quoted from http://weylmann.com/ryckman.doc Weyl’s Debt to Husserl: The Transcendental Phenomenological Roots
  of the Gauge Principle by Ryckman] 


Weyl echoed phenomenological ideas about the role of space and locality in Geometrie und Physik (1931), "only the spatio-temporally coinciding and the immediate spatial-temporal neighborhood have a directly clear meaning exhibited in intuition", meaning that even he was not up to speed on the quantum challenge to them yet. Philosophical problems with spatial localization in quantum mechanics came to prominence only after the EPR thought experiment in 1935. So the only place where Husserl could write something like Petitot's surmise would be Crisis of European Sciences (1936). But there quantum mechanics (“neue Atomphysik”) is only mentioned once, where it is faulted for being part of "Galilean science" that still understands Nature as a priori
mathematical:


  "In principle nothing is changed by the supposedly philosophically revolutionary critique of the "classical
  law of causality" made by recent atomic physics. For in spite of all that is new, what is essential in principle, it seems to me, remains: namely, nature, which is in itself mathematical; it is given in formulae, and it can be interpreted only in terms of the formulae." http://www.nupress.northwestern.edu/content/crisis-european-sciences-and-transcendental-phenomenology Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology, p.53


On the other hand, parallels between Bohr's and late Husserl's views are well known. Bohr was of course well versed in Einstein's challenges to quantum mechanics, and EPR with its emphasis on "local realism", was developed out of Einstein's discussion with Bohr back in 1930, of the photon-box thought experiment. In tune with Husserl, Bohr talked about the special role of observer in quantum mechanics, the role of classical concepts and intuitions in comprehending it, an alternative to interpreting it as groundless predictive formulae. In 1935 he wrote, for example,


  "While, however, in classical physics the distinction between object and measuring agencies does not entail any difference in the character of the description of the phenomena concerned, its fundamental importance in quantum theory […] has its root in the indispensable use of classical concepts in the interpretation of all proper measurements, even though classical theories do not suffice in accounting for the new types of regularities with which we are concerned in atomic physics." [Quoted from https://hrcak.srce.hr/file/165080. Husserl’s Reconsideration of the Observation Process and Its Possible Connections with Quantum Mechanics by Bilban]


The challenge posed to Husserl style formal metaphysics of individuated objects by indistinguishable objects of quantum mechanics is resolved a la Bohr. By making quantum ontology "purely mathematical", and making classical intuitive spatial picture, dear to late Husserl's heart, indispensable to it, as opposed to declaring it a derivative illusion. But Husserl, with his failing health and quantum mechanics immensely complex, technical and controversial, was hardly in a position to put all of this together himself in the last years of his life.
According to Julian Barbour Discovery of Dynamics, Aristotle disguised between an objective and 'potential' reality. I've put the latter in quotes as I don't recall the term for it.

In potential reality, contradictions are obtainable. In objective reality, not so, and the classical laws of logic obtain.

It seems to me that for hypotheses to be falsifiable they must be about objective reality where we can distinguish between p & not p objectively.

That there is something in this is shown in QM where it is possible for both p and not p to hold. For example, the spin of an electron can be potentially up and down. Yet in actuality, when we come to measure it, we only find it is either up or down and not both. We can only measure an objective reality, we can however infer a potential reality of which we cannot make direct hypotheses because we don't have direct access to it. 

Heisenberg found these notions of Aristotle important enough to acknowledge it in writing, referring to potentia and actualite. It's important to note - as Barbour does - that Aristotle used these concepts in his theory of motion, which was developed in  in an effort to solve Zenos paradox. And what is QM, but like every theory in physics, a theory of motion.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           There is no special cast called "slaves" in Platos Utopia. Instead all children are given to the state to be brought up and given work as the state sees fit once adult. Hence, almost everybody are slaves. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/plato-ethics-politics/ ref Although all people are "citizens" these "citizens" have no rights, only obligations, and no freedom at all except for the absolute upper part that rules the city.

Plato wishes to abolish freedom, and hence in our terminology make everybody slaves. He tries to cover this by claiming that rulers are enslaved (by responsibility and fear of those who rules over) and in pure NewSpeak claim that freedom leads to slavery. (ref: The Republic)

In Platos later 'Laws', he describes another city which he thinks is more realistic, and it does have a separate slave cast. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/plato-utopia/ ref

Platos view of slavery was therefore quite clearly very positive. But he knew that the word was negative, and therefore tried both to associate things he did not like, primarily freedom, with the word slavery, and also tried to excuse tyrannic rulers by claiming they actually were slaves to the people. But people that we today would call slaves, are people he wanted many of in his ideal states.
I am making this answer CW so as to have it act as a repo for sources related to this phrasing of what is "disagreement". Please feel free to add to it while researching!


https://www.princeton.edu/~tkelly/papers/disfinal.pdf 2004 Kelly, Thomas "The Epistemic Significance of Disagreement"(cited by 82)
http://brian.weatherson.org/DaD.pdf 2007 Weatherson, Brian "Disagreeing about Disagreement"
http://fitelson.org/few/few_07/shogenji.pdf 2007 Shogenji, Tomoji "A Conundrum in Bayesian Epistemology of Disagreement"(cited by 3)
http://fitelson.org/few/few_07/jehle.pdf 2007 Jehle, David "Remarks on A Conundrum in Bayesian Epistemology"

