http://www.lacan.com/zizek-inquiry.html Slavoj Zizek makes a number of compelling arguments against the various paradoxes involved with neo-liberal 'tolerance'. 

But after all, there's a fundamental ambiguity in the term itself, right? It's not "celebrate," it's "tolerate." On the surface it expresses a cosmopolitan openness ("come on in,") but underneath it conceals social injustice, bigotry, repression (in other words, it also means "not so close.")

It's the basic hypocrisy of the West in a nutshell. 
The two forms of egoism are actually closely related to one another.

Psychological egoism is essentially the observation that humans are characteristically motivated by their own self-interest. When they choose to take an action, it is ultimately going to be one that provides them some personal benefit (directly or indirectly), regardless of how altruistic it may appear to observers. 

Ethical egoism is an ethical position claiming that the morally right actions for an agent are exactly those that maximize the agent's self-interest. The only moral guideline for an action is whether it increases our own happiness. This taken to its logical conclusion implies that all moral agents ought to do that which is in their own self-interest. Of course, it does not require the infliction of any harm or pain upon others, but at the same time, it explicitly disavows the existence of an overarching moral obligation to help or serve others, arguing that an individual moral agent ought not treat one's self ("the subject") any differently than she treats others, and that the interests and desires of others ought not be placed above those of the same.

As I see it, the only significant area of conflict between the two forms is that psychological egoism is explicitly non-normative, whereas ethical egoism is a normative philosophy. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norm_%28philosophy%29 Normativity is a winding and fairly convoluted concept, but the important component here is with regards to the differing types of statements that are made by each philosophical viewpoint.

A normative view tends to be one that is prescriptivist; that is, it speaks about what one ought  to do. Normative theories attempt to prescribe behavior and enumerate principles that advise what one should  do in a particular situation. By contrast, a non-normative view is one that makes claims only about how things are, rather than how they ought to be. Fundamentally, the difference is one of is  vs. ought  statements.

And thus, one could argue that she is a psychological egoist purely because she believes that the position is fundamentally consistent with human nature, not because she thinks that actions which benefit only the self are either necessary or sufficient to achieve morality. In layman's terms, I could agree that such is how the world is, but not like it or endorse it. That would make me a psychological egoist, but not an ethical egoist.

But on the other hand, it would be relatively more difficult for an ethical egoist to distance herself from psychological egoism entirely. In fact, one of the justifications for ethical egoism might be its consistency with human nature, that moral agents are fundamentally given to look after their own welfare first before attempting to secure the welfare of others—an argument from the psychological egoist school of thought. Of course, there are plenty of other possible justifications, but the point remains that an ethical egoist is likely to also accept psychological egoism, whereas it would be theoretically possible for a psychological egoist to reject the prescriptive tenets of ethical egoism.
An instrumentalist believes that the purpose of a scientific theory isn't to describe an objective reality, but rather to effectively predict phenomena and solve problems. So the major consequence of this is that scientific theories are meaningless to the extent they deal with unobservable phenomena, or do not provide computable rules for predicting observable events. Insofar as I understand it, to an instrumentalist a scientific theory is a set of functions -- purely a practical instrument for problem solving. We get to bypass the realism-idealism debate, since an instrumentalist would discourage us from drawing any conclusions about ultimate "truth". 

In other words, instrumentalism suggests the practical utility of a theory is primary, that theories are nothing more than predictive algorithms, and that our reliance on them is no proof of their transcendent verity but reflects only the degree to which the relevant theory has proven effective at solving problems and predicting observable phenomena (rather than the degree to which they describe the character of an underlying reality.)

In Conjectures and Refutations, Popper criticizes instrumentalism for being too mechanical, and plainly reductive with respect to "purer" sciences:


  Instrumentalism can be formulated as the thesis that scientific theories - the theories of the so-called "pure" sciences - are nothing but computational rules (or inference rules); of the same character, fundamentally, as the computation rules of the so-called "applied" sciences. (One might even formulate it as the thesis that "pure" science is a misnomer, and that all science is "applied".) Now my reply to instrumentalism consists in showing that there are profound differences between "pure" theories and technological computation rules, and that instrumentalism can give a perfect description of these rules but is quite unable to account for the difference between them and the theories


Instrumentalism is an important position characteristic of pragmatism, alongside radical empiricsm and conceptual relativity. Consider the maxim of logic formulated by Pierce (which he called the "maxim of pragmatism" before the movement was even named):


  Consider what effects, that might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object.


Pierce reformulated this several years later (Peirce, 1905, from "Issues of Pragmaticism" in The Monist v. XV, n. 4, pp. 481-499, see p. 481 via Google Books and via Internet Archive):


  The entire intellectual purport of any symbol consists in the total of all general modes of rational conduct which, conditionally upon all the possible different circumstances and desires, would ensue upon the acceptance of the symbol.


In another excerpt from that document, this time clearly showing some instrumentalist-leaning concerns:


  In order to ascertain the meaning of an intellectual conception one should consider what practical consequences might conceivably result by necessity from the truth of that conception; and the sum of these consequences will constitute the entire meaning of the conception.

At the most basic level, I would argue that the distinction is primarily one of morality. That is, utilitarianism aims to establish the moral worth of an action, where pragmatism's sole intention is to assess the normative truth of a statement or idea.

The original American pragmatists (Charles Sanders Peirce and William James) seemed to be primarily interested in establishing a maxim that could be used to assess truth value. It merely asks whether an ideology or proposition works successfully. The answer to that question is considered sufficient to establish such idea or proposal as true; meaning is found only in the practical consequences of accepting a notion. Drawn to its logical conclusion, unpractical ideas are necessarily rejected, not out of any strict moral code, but merely because they fail to satisfactorily guide the inquiry of knowledge. This is the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pragmatic_maxim pragmatic maxim first proposed by Peirce. It is a strictly normative recommendation that sets up a standard for truth.

The primary question asked by a pragmatist could be envisioned as:


  What concrete, practical difference would it make if that theory were true and its opposite were false?


They would reject the idea (or at least the relevance of such an idea) that there are facts that are, in principle, unknowable. Talk of inaccessible Kantian "things-in-themselves", or the Nietzschean "True World" that is forever hidden behind the veil of phenomena is considered to be useless, merely idle chat.

By contrast, utilitarianism is a moral philosophy. It holds that the utility of a particular action in providing the greatest amount of happiness or pleasure to sentient beings is both necessary and sufficient to establish its moral worth. It aims to measure the morality of an action, rather than merely assess its normative truth value. The conclusion of a utilitarian calculus is that the action is good or bad, right or wrong, moral or immoral. Pragmatists do not render the same type of judgment; it is not meant to guide moral evaluation or moral decision-making.

The line probably begins to blur as you get into neo-pragmatism, those contemporary thinkers whose work has been widely held to be "pragmatist", like Jürgen Habermas, Hilary Putnam (although, "pragmatically"-speaking, it's awfully hard to nail down what his position actually is), etc. Some of them have drawn moral conclusions from pragmatist rationale. But in general, the distinction is still one of a moral-ethical system, as compared to a normative truth-based system.
It's often easier to argue on what someone doesn't believe than what they do believe. The straw man argument is characterized by a misrepresentation of an opponent's viewpoint to make for easier and more eloquent criticism of that opinion. In the following example from the movie “http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0427944/ Thank You for Smoking,” notice how Nick characterizes Joey's position as "anti-choice" which is absurd and meaningless in the context of their original debate:


  Joey: So, what happens when you're
  wrong?
  
  Nick: Well, Joey, I'm never wrong.
  
  Joey: But you can't always be right.
  
  Nick: Well, if it's your job to be
  right, then you're never wrong.
  
  Joey: But what if you are wrong?
  
  Nick: Okay, let's say that you're
  defending chocolate and I'm defending
  vanilla. Now, if I were to say to you,
  "Vanilla's the best flavor ice cream",
  you'd say...?
  
  Joey: "No, chocolate is."
  
  Nick: Exactly. But you can't win that
  argument. So, I'll ask you: So you
  think chocolate is the end-all and
  be-all of ice cream, do you?
  
  Joey: It's the best ice cream; I
  wouldn't order any other.
  
  Nick: Oh. So it's all chocolate for
  you, is it?
  
  Joey: Yes, chocolate is all I need.
  
  Nick: Well, I need more than
  chocolate. And for that matter, I need
  more than vanilla. I believe that we
  need freedom and choice when it comes
  to our ice cream, and that, Joey
  Naylor, that is the definition of
  liberty.
  
  Joey: But that's not what we're
  talking about.
  
  Nick: Ah, but that's what I'm talking
  about.
  
  Joey: But ... you didn't prove that
  vanilla's the best.
  
  Nick: I didn't have to. I proved that
  you're wrong, and if you're wrong, I'm
  right.


In the political arena, those who are anti-abortion characterize their position as “pro-life.” In this way, opponents of abortion are setting up a straw man argument implying that their opponents are not in favor of human life.” In reality, the question behind the abortion debate is not whether or not human life is valuable, but when human life begins and what social values are jeopardized in undermining a woman's right to decide these matters.

An effective way of debating and defusing “straw man” rhetoric, is by graciously and wholeheartedly agreeing with the opponent as much as possible. In a public forum debate about chocolate ice cream, Joey should follow up Nick's argument with an eloquent and gracious support for the value of freedom (ie: “I would like to thank Nick for the important values he articulated so eloquently; it's heartening to see that what we agree upon is far more important than the differences that divide us....”). Similarly, in the abortion debate, those in favor of a woman’s right to choose should graciously applaud the tireless humanitarian efforts and idealistic values of the “pro-life” movement.
I reject your premise: X doesn't die to save Y's life because X gets pleasure from doing so (how could a dead agent experience any kind of pleasure?). X dies to save Y for some other reason, believing in some other good: duty, doing the right thing... 

I think you are confusing pleasure with what might be called "utility". Economists model rational agents as utility maximisers and there is a sense in which you cannot fail to maximise utility, because whatever actions you perform can be rationalised by ascribing you some particular attidtude towards the goods in question. For example, people gamble even when their expected monetary gain from the gamble is negative (so not betting would maximise monetary gain). How is this rational? 'Well,' says the "revealed preference" economist, 'the gambler must get some utility from the act of gambling itself such that that outweighs the potential loss...'

To bring this back to "not being a hedonist": things other than pleasure can motivate us. To people sign up to the army because the get pleasure from the horrors of war? Of course not. They enlist because they are motivated by their sense of duty, for instance. Now, to say that they get pleasure from doing their duty is to distort the meaning of "pleasure" beyond recognition.
I don't think this is the best approach to tackling the cosmological argument.  The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalam_cosmological_argument Kalām version of the argument seems immune to the counter-argument by design.  It's less concerned with "What was there before the Universe?" and more concerned with:


  (2) The universe has a beginning of its existence.


A better objection1 is that the first premise is far from certain:


  (1) Everything that has a beginning of its existence has a cause of its existence.


If you reject (1), you don't need another case against the argument.  

(All terms of the argument are quoted from Wikipedia.)

To loop back to your question, a proponent of the cosmological argument would be unperturbed by the objection that time began to exist along with everything else since that's one of their premises: (2).  And in fact, scientists speak as often as anyone else about what happened before the Big Bang, so it seems like a specious counterargument.  At this point, arguments against (1) seem more likely to succeed.



Footnote:


Alvin Plantinga makes essentially this case in http://books.google.com/books/about/God_freedom_and_evil.html?id=8i1Sow6q6KYC God, Freedom, and Evil, if I understand correctly.

To say that beauty can be objective is to suggest that it can exist as part of something intrinsically. That is, such an object would be beautiful by its very nature; the nature of it's beauty would have to be a quantifiable feature of the object. Yet finding such a feature is seemingly impossible. From this it seems beauty can only be subjective.

Stated most simply: Can you describe the essence of beauty?
You probably are looking for the term "expanding circle", which is also the title of one of Singer's books: The Expanding Circle: Ethics and Sociobiology, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1981.
On thinking implying being

"I think therefore I am" only refers to bare existence, because you cannot think without existing. By contrast, if you thought you were a ham sandwich, this would not suffice to prove that you were a ham sandwich.

On coolness

After years of observation, I would say that 'coolness' consists of consistently acting in a way which people find calm, unconventional, and in a self-possessed and unconcerned manner. In particular, anyone who is substantially interested in how other people perceive them and spends much of their time thinking about it — for instance, anyone who spends time contemplating whether or not they are 'cool' — are unlikely actually to be cool. In this respect, coolness is much like the Buddhist concept of Englightenment: it involves a lack of emotional fixation, including the pursuit of Enlightenment/coolness itself.

(There is a notion of 'coolness' which is actually conformist, e.g. the things which "all the cool kids" do. I would class this as a sort of error of the same type as cargo cult science, except in the domain of personal self-determination and corollaries to personality extending from it.) 
Short answer

Philosophy is the human implementation of the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garbage_in,_garbage_out "garbage in - garbage out" principle which in this situation means that with differently chosen "input" (starting premises or axioms, maybe also some nontraditional logic) you can get different "output" (ethics).
So ethics can be called subjective (as it depends on your subjective choice).

Not so short answer

In addition to the short answer it's interesting to know how humans manage to live in such relative peace and even in something what can be called an agreement about many ethical questions. That is so because we are similar (thanks to biology and sociology).

We can found the idea of natural similarity in many forms and times in the history of philosophy.
1) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_law Natural law theories which, simplifying, find the base of morality in studies of human nature (or, according to the SEP, in http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/natural-law-ethics/ ethics and http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/natural-law-theories/ philosophy of law). There have been many natural law theorists, best known of them are Aquinas and Hobbes.
2) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersubjectivity Intersubjectivity - simplifying, it's a phenomenon of related or even shared subjective states, values etc. http://www.academia.edu/1308520/Intersubjectivity_Towards_a_dialogical_analysis This article (from sources of the Wiki article) has a very good introduction on the term; from classical/mainstream philosophers there's Husserl (a phenomenologist).
3) Also there's an assumption of similarity when one tries to persuade another into an ethical system. Such an action supposes that there exist shared values or premises which can be used to convince the counterpart.

So what does philosophy do with this similarity? It uses http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophical_analysis conceptual analysis to dissect and clarify notions of morality (sometimes hoping to give a definite answer about what's good and bad), which, if used to reach the one true definition of morality, is the same as trying to make compromises between many subjective ideas - which is difficult to do also because of emotion-influenced http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motivated_reasoning motivated reasoning.

My first try to answer question here. Be nice and tear it apart!
Yes, it does contradict itself. But that doesn't make it any less useful as a philosophical position as many nihilists will tell you. Nihilism may be better understood as an aesthetic rather than a properly mature philosophical position (which explains its singular attraction to certain kitted out in black adolescents). 

Consistency is not everything. After all the Liars Paradox contradicts itself yet Godel was able to spin out a major innovation in mathematical practise in the 20th century, or as Nietszche (portentiously) put it - 'very well, I contradict myself'.

However all of the above is probably a banalisation of the nihilistic proposal; a modern exponent of this tendency is http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Brassier Ray Brassier. In Nihil Unbound: Enlightenment and Extinction he makes a mature and considered defence of this position. In this http://www.kronos.org.pl/index.php?23151,896 interview he says:


  Very simply, nihilism is a crisis of meaning. This crisis is historically conditioned, because what we understand by ‘meaning’ is historically conditioned. We’ve moved from a situation in which the phenomenon of ‘meaning’ was self-evident to one in which it has become an enigma.


He marks the point where this begins to happen:


  The emergence of modern mathematized natural science around the 16th Century marks the point at which this way of making sense of ourselves and our world begins to unravel. It does not collapse all at once, but it begins to lose its official theoretical sanction in the discourse of theology once the new science starts chipping away at the latter’s basic conceptual underpinnings. Over the course of a few centuries, the longstanding assumption that everything exists for a reason, that things are intrinsically purposeful and have been designed in accordance with a divine plan, is slowly but systematically dismantled, first in physics, then in chemistry, and eventually in biology, where it had held out longest.


But he concedes its a position that has been rehearsed before:


  Of course, ‘nihilism’ in its broadest sense, understood as the predicament in which human life and existence more generally are condemned as ‘meaningless’ (i.e. ‘purposeless’), certainly predates the development of modern science (think of Ecclesiastes). But the emergence of modern science lends it a cognitive import it did not previously enjoy, because where pre-modern nihilism was a consequence of a failure of understanding – “We cannot understand God, therefore there is no meaning available to creatures of limited understanding such as we” – modern nihilism follows from its unprecedented success – “We understand nature better than we did, but this understanding no longer requires the postulate of an underlying meaning”. What has happened in this shift is that intelligibility has become detached from meaning


He moves distances himself from existentialists by moving further than they dared:


  existentialists thought it was still possible for human consciousness to provide the meaning that was absent from nature: existence may be meaningless, but man’s task is to provide it with a meaning. My contention is that this solution is no longer credible, because a project is now underway to understand and explain human consciousness in terms that are compatible with the natural sciences, such that the meanings generated by consciousness can themselves be understood and explained as the products of purposeless but perfectly intelligible processes, which are at once neurobiological and sociohistorical.


However, in another http://afterxnature.blogspot.ca/2012/08/ray-brassier-interviews-with-after_26.html interview he states However he isn't a positivist or a physicalist:


  I would like to maintain a commitment to science’s ultimate epistemic authority while resisting the dogmatic temptation to enthrone the entities, mechanisms and structures postulated by contemporary science as ultimate realities.


He concedes that science cannot explain what is ultimate:


  But the relationship between science and metaphysics is complicated: science says nothing about how to tell the difference between what is and what is not ultimately ‘real’. 


Given his commitment to the objectification of human experience he has an:


  antipathy to what Quentin Meillassoux calls ‘correlationism’—the doctrine, especially prevalent among ‘Continental’ philosophers, that humans and world cannot be conceived in isolation from one other.


Coming back to the ultimate, he does concede that the epistemic excavation of science is far from everything:


  That’s why I endorse a ‘transcendental realism’ according to which science knows the real but the nature of this ‘real’ is not strictly speaking objectifiable. The basic idea is that we know the real through objects, but that the real itself is not an object.


Essentially he reaffirms man & reason; and through this the objectification of man through reason. Hence his slogan - "I am a nihilist because I believe in truth".

In passing I just want to note that the title of his book refers to the poem Prometheus Unbound by the athiestic Poet Shelley who affirms the centrality of Man to Man; & Of course Buddhism - the extinction of subjectivity & the enlightenment of our objectivity.

Personally I disagree with his thesis that subjectivity can be objectified and his antipathy to correlationism.
Both are possible.
Nihilism could just mean the current values are without meaning. But usually, for example, in Nietzsche, 'objective values' cannot exist, because values are subjective perspectives.
The answer is simpler than you think.  "Fashion" is the effect, not the cause.  Combine two separate concepts: First, that pleasure resulting from a certain aesthetic fades over time.  So yes to your first question, it is the aesthetic value that changes.  You can only eat ice cream so long until you get tired of eating it, even though nothing changed about the ice cream.  Similarly, people get tired of seeing the same kind of clothes being worn all the time.  There is a certain pleasure in novelty.

Second, fashion has a social value, as well as an individual one.  Socially, what people wear is a significant part of our environment, so it's more pleasing to see people well-dressed.  Individually, to wear clothes that other people find pleasing arouses our vanity, so we have a personal interest in pleasing our society.

"Fashion" refers to this careful equilibrium between social pleasure and individual vanity.
I don't think there's any realistic possibility of coming to an accurate answer without having met any technologically advanced civilizations which developed independently of ours. The best we can do is think of what factors would affect the chances of having developed similar models of physics.

At issue, in part, is the question of why mathematics is effective in physics. Does mathematics have in some meaningful sense a metaphysical role in the way that the world works — is there a 'music of the spheres' whose sheet music is written in mathematical notation? Or is it that mathematics is a sufficiently versatile tool that we find it capable of describing many things, including in particular the relationships we see in the universe (in particular because these relationships prompt the development of mathematics)? The reason why this is important is that it may have ramifications for how many different approximate descriptions there are for the laws of nature using mathematics.

Consider a toy example from mathematics itself, in which we try to describe a real number 0 < x < 1 by a sequence of approximations or expressions (e.g. rational numbers which are close to x), where x is described by an infinite sequence of digits 0.x1x2x3... in whichever positional system you like. However, we suppose that  you only have access to as many of the digits xi as you ask for. You can continue asking for more digits, but you can never know all of them at once. 


If x is itself a rational number, there is a single best rational approximation, which is x = n / d itself. As soon as you obtained the "approximation" of n / d for x, you would know that it was a good approximation; and and no matter how many digits of x you asked for, it would remain a good approximation while others would become more and more noticeably wrong. In fact, using http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continued_fraction#Calculating_continued_fraction_representations continued fractions, you could actually obtain the correct values of n and d exactly; you would never know that they were perfectly correct (you might be corrected at the very next digit that you asked for after all), but once you found them you would never have to revise your estimate for x.

This is analogous to a material universe in which the laws are very simple: if one used the right techniques, one could eventually obtain a law of nature which never needed correcting — although you wouldn't actually know that it would never need correcting.
If x is a 'quadratic' irrational number, that is a solution to a polynomial ax2 + bx + c = 0 for some integers a, b, and c such that b2 − 4ac is positive but not a perfect square, then you will never arrive at a final rational approximation (because x is irrational). But if you were to use continued fractions to try to obtain a rational approximation, you would notice that the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Periodic_continued_fraction#Relation_to_quadratic_irrationals continued fraction representation eventually starts repeating. If you recognised the pattern, you could arrive at an exact representation of the irrational number — again, without ever knowing for certain that it was correct, but if you did find it you would never need to correct it.

This is analogous to a material universe in which the laws are not extremely simple, but where with the correct techniques you could still discover a set of laws which perfectly reproduced observation up to measurement precision.
If x is a http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liouville_number Liouville number, then not only is it irrational, but it is transcendental: it is not the solution to any polynomial equation over the integers. And yet it will look very, very much like a rational number, because by definition you can find rational approximations ni / di which are not only as close as you like (which you can do with any real number), but in fact you can find approximations for which there is very little room for improvement without using a much, much larger denominator D ≫ di . Thus when looking for approximations to the number, you can get very close while being subtly wrong, and without insight as to where the value comes from, little improvement is likely.

This is an analogue to a material universe which can be modeled well by very simple laws, but where a difference in the way in which you investigate the number may give rise to different formulations of the laws, whose differences will not be very significant but where the formulations themselves may be noticeably different.
If x is uncomputable, e.g. if its digits are in effect completely random as though they were generated by perfectly fair coin-tosses, then different approaches to evaluating the number may give rise to significantly different approximations of x — not in the sense of having wildly different values, of course, because after all we are talking about approximations of a single number, but the expressions for these approximations may bear little in common with one another.

This is an analogue of a material world which is rich in complexity and information, where one may approximate the physics as closely as you like, but where there is no final theory and no particular reason why refinements of the theory should look superficially much like one another.


The point of the analogies above is to give some idea of the range of possibilities (and there are likely more possibilities than those I have mentioned above) for how the physical world may be like. If you accept the analogy, then you may try to consider your question by considering giving several numerically gifted thirteen-year-olds a single digit string 0.x1x2x3... , and asking yourself: under what conditions are they likely to arrive at the same expression or approximation for the number x which it represents?


If x is rational with a small denominator — or a very simple Liouville number — then it is likely that many of them will arrive at the same rational expression or approximation in a short amount of time.
If x is rational with a very large denominator, a somewhat complicated Liouville number, or a quadratic irrational number, then individual insights or the techniques which they use are likely to become significant in what approximations they produce.
If x is a more complicated algebraic number, or a result of coin-tosses, then the particular techniques they use is likely to be very important to determine what approximations they obtain, and there is no particular reason why they should have the same estimate.


What I have tried to suggest above is that even within mathematics itself, there are multiple approaches that one may take to investigating approximations to some number. It is true that some methods are easier than others, and for that reason may be easily reproduced by independent ingenious minds. Whether or not these easily-reproduced ideas are enough to find the pattern of the number to be approximated is the crux. There exist numbers which simply have no pattern, and also numbers whose pattern is more complicated or harder to extract than others.

The same is true of conceivable physical laws. As an apparatus for describing relationships, mathematics can describe any pattern worthy of the name, but there is no reason why everyone should be so lucky as to stumble upon the same description, or even on descriptions of the same accuracy, unless the universe happens to be quite simple. And we can never know for certain that it is very simple — for after all, like a Liouville number which 'masquerades' as a rational number, any long-standing simple law may be subtly incorrect in a way that just the right nuanced insight from a different point of view might be able to anticipate.
Compare with the following hypothetical question: "Honest men don't steal; how does one steal while remaining an honest man?" The answer is, of course, "he doesn't". Similarly, if you subscribe to the definition of a "noble man" as to "one who puts demands on himself rather than others", the demand on others, according to your definition, would make him a common man.

The above was just a syllogism; the real problem is not in the question but in the definition that wrongly assumes the false dichotomy on putting the demands on oneself or others.
That depends on how you define "surety". First of all, it seems you are assuming that an axiom of surety is that: if you are "sure of P" then you are "sure of sure of P" (see the transitivity axiom of necessity in S4 modal logic, where □A → □□A). Subsequently, if being "sure of P" is also equivalent to being "sure of sure of P" then you can limit the things you are sure of to a finite set (technically a finite set of equivalence classes), of size 16 in this case. If however, "sure P" is not equivalent to "sure sure P" then you have a (countably) infinite number of things you are sure about ("sure P", "sure sure P", "sure sure sure P", etc.). Does this help? 
Analysis of http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phantom_limb phantom limb syndrome suggests that pain (along with many types of sensations) can occur in a place other than where they seem to be happening, but there's no evidence it's not physical in nature. That is, the experience of pain may be "all in your mind" but still the result of physical processes.

More info:

http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31555.Phantoms_in_the_Brain http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31555.Phantoms_in_the_Brain

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vilayanur_S._Ramachandran http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vilayanur_S._Ramachandran
Don't be misled by the second way of presenting Modus Tollens (MT). The general form is:


  MT:   {P → Q, ¬Q} ⊢ ¬P.


Your second form, call it MT′, is very different:


  MT′:   {¬P → ¬Q, Q} ⊢ ;P.


From a natural deduction standpoint with a rule of conditional introduction and detachment (also called modus ponendo ponens), MT' will suffice for all negation and conditional tautologies of classical logic.  But, MT all with a rule of conditional introduction and detachment can't produce all negation and conditional tautologies.

The fallacious inference of affirming the consequent (☆) has the following slightly different form:


  (☆)   {P → Q, Q} ⊢ P.


This is not a substitution instance of MT, i.e., there is no assignment of values to P and Q in MT (or MT′) that will yield (☆).



Without going into the philosophical logical literature on MT, I'd like to convince you that MT is a fine rule of inference by unpacking the meaning of the material conditional (→), revealing another form of MT that you didn't mention in your question:


  MT′′:   {¬P ∨ Q, ¬Q} ⊢ ¬P.


This form of MT is an instance of a general rule of inference called disjunctive syllogism (DS):


  DS:   {P ∨ Q, ¬Q} ⊢ P.


MT′′ can be obtained from DS by substituting ¬P for P. Intuitively, consider the following assignments for P and Q:


(P) a is an even number,
(Q) a is an odd number,


for some arbitrary number a. DS says that, if you've proved that a is either an even number or an odd number, and you have further proved that a is not an odd number, then you have a proof for the fact that a is an even number.

If you find this reasoning acceptable (do you?), then you have to grant that MT is also an acceptable rule of inference.



To convince yourself that ☆ is not acceptable, let's build a countermodel:


(P) b is an even number,
(Q) b is a number,


for some object b (not necessarily a number). The compound formula (P → Q) says that "if b is an even number then b is a number". The inference says: if you have proven that if b is an even number then b is a number, and further you have proven that b is a number, then you have in fact proven that b is an even number.

This is clearly fallacious. Suppose b = 3. (P → Q) is trivially true on logical grounds. If we have proved Q then we know that 3 is a number, which is great to verify. But ☆ is allowing us to conclude that we've proved P, namely that: b (which is equal to 3) is an even number! 

Therefore, we conclude that ☆ is a fallacious rule of inference, while MT is fine.



A lot of philosophical logical literature has been devoted to discussing the pros and cons of MT and similar basic inference rules and their different forms, and the principles we commit to when we accept them. I can't go into those because


(i) I'm not qualified, and
(ii) I find MT unproblematic (do you? if 'no' → countermodel?). 

A rule utilitarian thinks, before acting, about the consequences of people following that rule. If the outcome is regarded as positive, she might decide that it's good to follow that rule in general, and will apply it in future. 

An act utilitarian doesn't generalise the act, but regards it as a single action with a single outcome. She will have to weigh the possible consequences each and every time she acts.

Therefore, rule utilitarianism is considered to be more practicable, countering the anti-utilitarian argument that weighing each and every possible outcome each and every time is just not the way we want to (or can) spend our time.

On the other hand, act utilitarians consider rule utilitarians somewhat dull-witted, for a smart person might think of herself to be able to decide what to do without just applying rules time and time again. Also, blindly applying rules to specific situations can have unforeseen negative consequences that might have been averted by somebody who paid more attention instead of executing a programme.

At the same time, act utilitarians are criticised for their double standards, for they think it is useful if everybody follows "good" rules while they take for themselves the right to decide whether or not it is clever to stick to those rules in a specific situation.

An example: A rule utilitarian drives at night and sees a red intersection light. Thinking "it would have good consequences if people would stick to the rule and not cross red lights, so everyone is safe while waiting for a short while", she would apply that rule to herself and wait for it to turn green. Meanwhile, the act utilitarian might think "well, I certainly hope that people, who aren't me, in general follow that rule and stay put, but as there's no one around who might get influenced by my act, since there's no police around to fine me, and since I would see an approaching car as it's dark, I might as well cross right now."

Sources: There is a paper by Smart which you can find http://www.google.de/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=3&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CDoQFjAC&url=http%3A%2F%2Fphilosophyfaculty.ucsd.edu%2FFACULTY%2FRARNESON%2FCourses%2FSMARTextremerestricted.pdf&ei=Re06U9bmDeaX7QbN84D4CA&usg=AFQjCNExDgdSeW3XdWfCl2sdEriMQQwfSQ&sig2=CLczdqjq6wkTC4YrPMZY_w&bvm=bv.63934634,d.ZGU here; I'm pretty sure that's what we read in the seminar where I learned what I wrote. Smart's the act utilitarian.
The "intension" of a concept is its meaning, whereas the "extension" of the concept is the set of the things that fall under that concept. The most helpful way to see the distinction is with a pair of concepts that have the same extension, but different intensions. 

For instance "renate" (="having kidneys") and "cordate" (="having a heart"). Everything that is the one is also the other, so the terms are coextensive. Yet there is still clearly a difference in meaning between them. 

"Intentional" on the other hand in these contexts usually means "being about something". (The idea of doing something "intentionally" i.e. on purpose is actually quite different.) Mental states are often intentional, that is to say, usually we are seeing that p, or believing that p, or doubting that p, or whatever. There is some content p to the mental state that it is about. 
Our first order of business is to actually look at the painting. There are a few crucial details to notice. First, this is a painting of a scene of painting. That alone should give you at least an inkling of why Foucault choses to discuss this work. The room is lit through a window out of frame, and the walls of the room are covered with paintings. We see Velázquez himself on the left, holding a brush and palette, and standing before a work (presumably) in progress; moving down and to the right, we see the Infanta Margaret Theresa surrounded by companions and guards; moving up, a man framed by a doorway in the distance; and between him and Velázquez -- a mirror.

The mirror is the most startling detail to many, because it draws our attention to a crucial absence. Take a look:  



The painting, as Foucault says, shows us representation "in all its elements." He enumerates them: 


"its images" -- that is, the paintings on the walls
"the eyes to which it is offered" -- those of the family and subjects of the king and queen
"the faces it makes visible" -- the faces of those same people
"the gestures that call it into being" -- the right arm of Velázquez, paused in its movement towards or away from the palette.


But the subject of the painting is absent. The painting has been turned away from our view, and the people it represents are not shown. At best, we can surmise that the two figures in the mirror are the subjects, but their presence in the scene is a second-order presence -- it is merely a reflection. Uncannily, it also appears to be reflecting us as we observe the painting; we, as observers, occupy the same point of view as the subject of the painting. And we also share that point of view with the painter as he works the canvas of this painting.

I think Foucault wants us to understand two things from this. First, the conventions of representation demand that the space in which this point of view exists be empty. Or, to put it a different way, they require that it be free for anyone to occupy. It cannot be in the painting, nor indeed is it clear what that would mean in the context of "Classical representation." It is only by creating this implicit space outside the painting that the painting itself can be made sense of. This is a constitutive absence -- what Foucault calls an "essential void." Without that void, representation could not function as it does.

And second, he wants us to understand that when we look at a painting in the usual way -- by standing in front of it and saying "oh look, there's a dog" -- we blind ourselves to the actual process by which representation comes into being. We skip past all of the complex social activities that allow representation to happen -- all of the relationships and power structures that enable the painter to work -- all of the institutions that educate us in the conventions of visual representation -- and see nothing but the dog. By excluding the subject of the painting here, Velázquez draws our attention away from the subject, and towards everything outside of the painting that allows it to exist in the first place. 

The subject of the painting, from this point of view, is the least important thing about it. It becomes something like what Hitchcock named "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacGuffin the MacGuffin": something in a narrative that motivates all the characters' actions, driving the plot, but that the author might as well have chosen at random. Think of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Maltese_Falcon_(1941_film) The Maltese Falcon -- or for a more modern example, the glowing briefcase at the end of Pulp Fiction. We don't know what's in the briefcase, and we don't really care. We only care about what it makes the film's characters do. 

That's the attitude towards representation that Foucault is trying to inculcate in his readers. Don't look at The Great OZ; pay attention to the man behind the curtain.
If you want to use formal logic as inspiration, there are three appropriate ways to use postulates:

First, you can postulate something, show that accepting that postulate leads to an impossibility, and thus show the postulate is false.  

Second, you can postulate something, draw a conclusion, then postulate the opposite, draw the same conclusion, and thus show the conclusion is sure.  

Third, you can make a postulate, and draw a conclusion, and thus show that if your postulate were true, your conclusion would be as well.
The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copenhagen_interpretation Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics seems to imply that there is some important rôle for "observers" in the collapse of the wave function.  Schrödinger gave his http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schr%C3%B6dinger%27s_cat cat argument in an attempt to refute the Copenhagen interpretation by demonstrating that it leads to something ridiculous (a cat simultaneously dead and alive, and only "collapsing" to one state or another when the human opens the box).

As far as I know this argument has nothing to do with the uncertainty principle.  The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncertainty_principle uncertainty principle is not mystical or particularly controversial.  It is simply the statement that position and momentum are duals, and uncertainty principles also occur in classical systems (for example: the length and frequency of a sound are dual variables, the shorter a sound the more spread out its frequency spectrum must be, and a tone of a single frequency must be extremely long.)

I think almost all physicists are http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophical_realism realists, as described in @MauroALLEGRANZA's comments, but they don't necessarily agree about what is real and what is just a model of reality.  An http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interpretation_of_quantum_mechanics#Comparison_of_interpretations interpretation of quantum mechanics makes philisophical assertions about what is and isn't real.  If you look at the Wikipedia article about interpretations you will see that there are a dozen or so that are discussed and debated, and each makes different assertions about whether the wave function is "real" or just a mathematical convenience that models some other reality.  They also all make different assertions about whether wave function collapse is real or is just an illusion brought about by quantum decoherence.  Probably the most important sentence in the wikipedia article is:


  No experimental evidence exists that distinguishes among these interpretations.


What most realists agree on, I think, is that there is something external to our minds, and that we all share a similar set of perceptions of things in the real world.  That is: there are experiments we can perform and repeat and which we will all agree on the measured results.
I've found in Norman Wentworth DeWitt, http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0816657459 Epicurus and His Philosophy (1954), page 163 :


  Lacking a unit for the denotation of extremely high velocity, Epicurus describes it as follows: 
  
  
    "Furthermore, motion through the void, so long as no interference arises from conflicting bodies, accomplishes any conceivable distance in a space of time inconceivably brief." [Diogenes Laertius, Lives of the Ancient Philosophers, translation by R.D.Hicks, Loeb Classical Library, 1925, 10.2]
  
  
  Elsewhere he also writes: 
  
  
    "For over whatever distance it [an object] holds to either motion [for every motion he assumes there is a motion in an opposite direction], over that distance it will maintain its speed, quick as thought." [Cicero, De Natura Deorum, 1.26.72] 
  
  
  What he meant by "quick as thought" may readily be surmised. He must have observed, first of all, the extraordinary speed of reaction in the automatic mind, which guards the safety of the individual during his daily rounds. To the ancients the chief hazards seem
  to have been carts, dogs, ditches, and precipices. We should think rather of the perils of motorized traffic.


I think that the statement must be interpreted as metaphorical ...

See also, in Epicurus, http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0883557894 The extant remains (Cyril Bailey ed - 1926) : Epicurus to Herodotus, page 36 :


  the atoms must move with equal speed, when they are borne onward through the void. [...] For as long as either of the two motions [upwards and downwards] prevails, so long will it have a course as quick as thought [...]. Moreover, their passage through the void, when it takes place without meeting any bodies which might collide, accomplishes every compehensible distance in an inconceivably short time.




Comment

Please, note that Epicurus is speaking of motion of atoms in general, and not specifically of light...
Well, the examples you offer seem to be oppositions...East v. West, a discourse that valorizes belief v. a discourse that valorizes knowledge, and man v. woman. The “Big Other” is the symbolic texture of human subjectivity, whence come norms, expectations, desires, prohibitions, regimes of representation, guaranties of meaning, and many other things. 

The "Other" in Big Other can be distracting; it tends to personify, if not caricature, what I described in the previous sentence. I think that many people tend to think of the Big Other as a Big (br)Other, which is a mistake. The Big Other is purely virtual, and of it Lacan would often say that it doesn’t exist (he would also say “there is no Other of the Other,” which was a way of saying that there is no metalanguage that could provide a guarantee to our meanings).

Regarding the relation between man and woman, it is reasonable to see them as being little others for each other; in some ways this is accurate, but I think only in a superficial way. The relation between little others is, one some level, always  one of narcissism, aggression, and competition. If you think about it, to some extent, this pertains to all relations between all individuals. 

But the relation between ‘man’ and ‘woman,’ this is something a little different... I think that lacanians would tend to speak of one as being the symptom of the other, and I think the same is true for the relation between Orient and Occident. As to the relation between Religion and Philosophy, I don’t know.


Since little others can be thought of as neighbors, fellow citizens, enemies, friends, peers, or lovers, and Big Others can be thought of as collections of social conventions, codes, norms, laws, etc., why shouldn't we simply abandon the lacanian parlance and call little others 'persons' and Big Others 'cultures'? What is it that makes the other "other"? 

What is it that grounds the Other's (or other's) alterity, that  makes it   fundamentally unassimilable?  

Jouissance.


Here is a link to an article by J.A. Miller that addresses this idea.

http://www.lacan.com/symptom/?p=36 http://www.lacan.com/symptom/?p=36
I believe this is called the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moralistic_fallacy moralistic fallacy. The wikipedia entry seems to agree, but it seems to be in a cringe-worthy state of editing.

But I think it precisely means the form: that there ought to be X means that there is X.
Judging Dawkins' argument solely by the quotation above, I would say that Dawkins response is a form of "argument by satire" which is a type of fallacy.

Furthermore, the argument is truncated (whether the truncation is by Dawkins or by OP, I cannot say).  The argument could go on to say "we define the maximum amount of smelliness as 'Oscar the Grouch'".  Then again, Dawkins, being British, may not be familiar with Oscar.

Some flaws with Aquinas's argument are (these flaws are not explicitly stated by Dawkins in the above quote):


Sentence three "But we judge these degrees only by comparison with a maximum." is utterly false.  Tallness, for example, is a comparison which is entirely relative, and is not compared to some sort of maximum.  There are many comparisons that are not in reference to some theoreical maximum.  Given that this premise is wrong, the argument can only stand if one then justifies that "goodness" is measured relative to a maximum.  Such a justification is not included in Aquinas's "proof".
The argument presumes that goodness is an objective standard.  This assumption is directly contrary to reality.  There are man competing definitions of what constitutes good versus evil.  As another answer pointed out, a woman crusading for women's rights would be considered "doing good" by some people and "doing evil" by others.
Even if you did accept the premises of the argument, it is not a proof of the existence of God.  We know that Oscar the Grouch is a fictional character, despite the fact that we have defined him to be the quintessential of smelliness.  As a mathematician would say "The existence of an infimum of a set does not imply that the infimum is a member of the set."  Even if we did accept that "God" is the maximum of goodness, that does not imply that God exists.


My evaluation of Dawkins' argument is that he is so shocked that Aquinas fails to notice this third point that Dawkins forgets to explicitly state it.  Or else he thinks it is so obvious that it does not need to be stated.
There can in theory be a "most beautiful" human if you are willing to define what that means, e.g. if every living human between the ages of 10 and 80 on January 1st, 2015 judges the runner-up 99 most attractive humans and the candidate for most beautiful human by ranking them all from 1 to 100; then the most beautiful human is that human which has the lowest summed rank over all judges.

Given this framework, you have two possibilities:


There exists a unique set of features that results in the lowest (best) score.
There exists many sets of features that, when chosen appropriately, tie for the lowest score.


If the former, there exists a most beautiful possible human; any change to that human would result in a lower score.  If the latter, there is a class of most beautiful humans because any change diminishes beauty in the eyes of some exactly to the same extent that it raises beauty in the eyes of an equal number of others.
Here Descartes is writing about how it is he can make mistakes. The worry is that since he was made by God, and God does not make mistakes, it would seem that Descartes should also be unable to make mistakes. But clearly he can be in error. How does this happen?

Well, he has different faculties--he has a faculty of understanding, and a faculty of will (which includes judgment). His faculty of understanding is limited--he does not understand everything, and even what he does understand he may not get it perfectly. His faculty of will, however, is not limited at all. He can make all kinds of choices and judgments, and these are not necessarily constrained. It is, therefore, in making judgments about things that he doesn't understand that error comes into the picture. The faculty of judging outstrips the understanding, and that leads to error. It is not, though, because there is a problem with the his God-given faculty of understanding, or with the way that faculty works--it works exactly as God intended. The same goes for the faculty of judgment (the faculty works fine, exactly as God intended). The problem comes from Descartes failing to restrict his judgments to those things he understands.

I hope this helps!
There is a related fallacy called http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post_hoc_fallacy post hoc ergo propter hoc, which is the incorrect statement that if A is after B, then A is caused by B.

The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Converse_%28logic%29 converse of post hoc ergo propter hoc is "If A is caused by B, then A is after B." The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contraposition contrapositive of this is the equivalent statement "If A is not after B, then A is not caused by B." This is a true statement, and the concept it represents is termed the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrow_of_time#The_causal_arrow_of_time causal arrow of time.  The fallacy you mentioned can be seen as a failure to satisfy this implication.
Here is a reference claiming that "Love it or leave it" is the fallacy of False Dilemma.


  Definition: A limited number of options (usually two) is given, while
  in reality there are more options. A false dilemma is an illegitimate
  use of the "or" operator.
  
  Examples: 
  
  (i) Either you're for me or against me.
  
  (ii) America: love it or leave it.


http://people.uncw.edu/kozloffm/logicalfallacies.html http://people.uncw.edu/kozloffm/logicalfallacies.html

Here is a second source labelling "Love it or leave it" as a False Dilemma.

https://eee.uci.edu/faculty/losh/resources/in-class/noblelf.html https://eee.uci.edu/faculty/losh/resources/in-class/noblelf.html
I found a paragraph in Parfit's https://books.google.at/books?id=mTpLAAAAQBAJ On What Matters that gives a definition of "substantive normative claim":


  There is another way in which some people have come to accept
  subjective theories about reasons. We can call some normative claim
  substantive when this claim both
  
  (a) states that something has some normative property,
  and
  
  (b) is significant, by being a claim with which we might disagree,
  or which might be informative, by telling us something that
  we didn’t already know. 
  (p. 70)

It appears Aristotle is saying such a life would be too ascetic and unnaturally austere. Quoting http://www.sacred-texts.com/cla/ari/nico/nico115.htm Nicomachean Ethics, Chapter 7 (link) : 


  "... but the activity of reason, which is contemplative, seems both
  to be superior in serious worth and to aim at no end beyond itself,
  and to have its pleasure proper to itself ..., it follows that this
  will be the complete happiness of man, ... But such a life would be
  too high for man; for it is not in so far as he is man that he will
  live so, ...


Nevertheless, this is part of the aim of Buddhist philosophy, except that one who has fully 'gone-beyond' (an Arahant), would aim for "conscious entry into the gradually obtained complete cessation of notion"; that is, cessation from the activity of reasoning. Pure contemplation, if you like.
I don't know of a specific name for this idea, but it certainly has been proposed. As one example, it was the center pillar of the arguments developed by CS Lewis in the book Mere Christianity. In the book, he appeals to an innate sense of right and wrong in simple social situations, such as when someone bumps you walking down the street, and how the common (seemingly universal) reaction to that is that it's not good to do that.

Another example of someone who depicted a similar idea is Augustine. Augustine in Confessions in several places references the idea of the moral sense being innate. In one passage, he expresses regret at stealing pears just for the sake of doing that, and feels that the regret is an innate feeling stemming from violating what's right. He also says famously that there is an innate desire for union with God (our hearts are restless until they rest in you), from whom many religious people (such as Augustine) would say is the source of morality.

For counter arguments, one can see:


Positivists and utilitarians seem that they would both reject any argument that appeals to personal experience, looking only at the external results of an action to figure if something is good or not
Plato (see The Republic, Gold Souls, vs. others) and Aristotle (Book 1 of Politics: the necessity of the governing class, heads of household) both argued that while some are well-suited innately for having a good sense of morality/virtues, others are not, and it is the job of the ruling class (composed of those who are to ensure a moral/virtuous state.

I don't have my text with me, but Kant's view in Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone is that God necessarily comes to the same conclusions of reason with regards to morality and is not necessary for our moral reasoning. (The same view is implied in some of Kant's earlier moral works -- note the absence of an appeal to theology in Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals , Metaphysics of Morals, and Critique of Practical Reason). 

To simplify, the source of morality is reason for Kant, and God has reason and thus comes to the same conclusions. Those who need to think of God to come to the conclusions of reason are in Kant's view using a crutch.

Thus, Kant rejects the http://www.iep.utm.edu/voluntar/ voluntarist position that God is above morality.

Despite this, Kant still maintains that God is necessary for morality to maintain what is often called the "proportionality thesis". This is the idea that people will receive happiness in proportion to the degree that they are moral. Kant recognized that this was not true in this world and make God a "postulate of moral reason" (at least in the Critique of Practical Reason) in order to make it so that being moral makes sense in terms of fairness (by becoming eternally fair).
I am on a Whitehead kick, so I will answer from an 'organic process' point of view.  (This is not Whiteheads ethics, which I find gloriously mind-addling, and involves an ultimate observer God, that I have trouble accepting, but instead a simpler version based upon his basic theory of value as the relevance of an event.)

Actions in time are not independent, but they are tied to past and future actions through the unity of experience.  If moments of action were independent, motives would not matter, what someone was causing at any given moment would be good or bad in itself and we would move on to the next moment of good or bad, accumulating an ethically positive or negative existence along the way.  But that is not the way actual animals live.  It lacks unity.

We don't just want to exist through waves of good or bad experiences.  We want an underlying structure that we can rely upon and reproduce.  One's recurring states of mind are what cause behaviors to be reproduced.  So motive binds actions to future actions.  Intention becomes a habit, and good or bad intentions become good or bad habits.

As a collective whole, we want to value the motive behind a good action because only by instilling the return of proper states of mind that provoke good motives can we bind mere actions into an ethics that predicts future proper actions and gives us a feeling of predictable and safe communities.

As Dave pointed out, one interpretation of the "40% chance of thunderstorms" is "historically, 40% of the days where the conditions were similar to Today, the next day there was a thunderstorm". This is a frequentist interpretation based on the interpretation of probabilities as frequencies. Even in the case where we don't have historical data or multiple realizations of the experiment, it is still possible to have a frequentist interpretation of probabilities. In such a case the statement "There's a 40% chance of X" is interpreted as meaning "If we were to perform this experiment multiple times, 40% of the outcomes would be X".   
A second interpretation is the Bayesian or subjective interpretation of probabilities: The probability represents a degree of likelihood, not based on number of outcomes, but based on our theoretical knowledge of the situation. Consider a roulette wheel, where half of the squares are red and half are black: You assign a 50% chance of the ball landing on black, not based on number of outcomes, but based on the geometry of the situation. Since half of the wheel is made of black squares and had is made of red squares, the likelihoods of the ball landing on either side are equal. In your weather forecast, a meteorologist might assign a 40% chance of thunderstorms because of their knowledge of hydrodynamics and of wind patterns, not based on any historical data. You will thus hear Bayesians speak of "A priori" probability, that is probability obtained from a theoretical model a situation, vs "A posteriori" probability, which is obtained from running the experiment multiple times.   

As someone who works in both Modern Western philosophy and Classical Confucianism, I don't think one is required to do so when doing comparative philosophy unless you're using a very nuanced definition of cultural relativism. In fact, I would say you cannot do comparative philosophy if you cannot assert non-culturally relative things on at least some level.

I take it the term cultural relativism is meant to be a denial of universal truth claims and the suggestion that the truth of something is wholly relative to culture. This is at least how the term gets thrown about at times and how I will use this term in the answer. (If you meant something else by it, then the results will be quite different).

Now, you pick an interesting example when you say "aesthetics" and the "philosophy of art." But at least when I read your question, there's some slippage there in that you're jumping from aesthetics / philosophy of art to aesthetics as in critique of art in the remainder of your last paragraph. Philosophy of art is not about judging art pieces but about the nature of aesthetic value -- as such it's at least a layer further abstract that critiquing individual paintings.

At the same time, you might mean something completely different by cultural relativism than the thrust of your question and some of the sentences seem to indicate. If you mean, do we need to realize that we come from limited perspectives and don't have  a monopoly on good insights and ideas and moreover that the arguments and terms of thought are not identical from one thought tradition to another, then surely we need to do this. But this doesn't imply that we reject the belief there are better and worse ways to parse the world in which we live. We might call this approach cultural sensitivity or more broadly perspectivism.

To put it another way, doing comparative philosophy well (for those of us who believe it is possible) involves becoming "bilingual" in the philosophical vocabularies of multiple traditions. And if you are bilingual then you will recognize that some words better express what you want than other words across both languages. This doesn't mean you'll never find inadequacies in using on language or another.
I'm going to suggest three things that might be contributing to the problem you're identifying.

First due to the long course of history, the meaning of arete (translated as "virtue") in Aristotle is often lost in the English term virtue. The term arete refers to excellence.

Second, eudaimonia as you note is not always best rendered by the English word "happiness." (Still, some translators, like https://www.google.co.jp/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8#q=terence%20irwin Terence Irwin, do translate it as "Happiness" and provide a lengthy explanation of how that's not ideal.). I'm not sure "objective state of fulfillment of purpose" is the best definition for it either (whether we're talking Book I or Book X or the Nicomachean Ethics), but I'd say it's better on a first reading than "happiness" by itself. Instead, I'd suggest seeing eudaimonia as both flourishing in accordance with one's kind and the happiness that results from that fulfilment of the capacities of one's kind.

With these two things in hand, it's helpful to realize that arete is excellence in a particular area of human excellence. So for instance, courage is excellence in managing feelings of fear and knowledge of danger. And this requires knowing both what one can and cannot do and understanding one's feelings. Thus, courage is worth having both because it's ideal as a course of action and because having it contributes to the overall eudaimonia of the self. 

These two items might not get to the heart of your question, which my apologies I had a little difficult parsing at 6:50 am local time. It sounds like the core of your question hinges on denying something Aristotle accepts (but that if memory serves  the Stoics deny with respect to virtues), namely that something can be both for itself and for a further end.

There's several different things tangled up here. First, I'm going to suggest it's quite plausible to do an action for multiple reasons, but it's quite hard to parse out how much each reason contributes it. So for instance, I might help my brother's business out both because he pays me and because he's my brother and because I get a sense of fulfilment from helping him. If you don't think so (the principle -- not the example), then clearly no account of how one can pursue human arete for itself and for eudaimonia is going to work.

If you can accept at least that one can do an action both for itself and for something else, then the trick for any virtue is that I can want that virtue and want eudaimonia as a result of that virtue. For instance, I run pretty regularly both because I enjoy running and because I want to be in shape and because I see exercising as an achievement. "Wanting to be in shape" also contains a kind of compound purpose since it relates both to the way that being in shape contributes to my general health and to my happiness and to my future health.

Aristotle's claim is that the virtues are just the sort of excellences that mirror and implement well-functioning of the human kind, and that well-functioning of the human kind is eudaimonia (excepting BK X).

Thus, for instance, it's not impossible for me to want friends and to want to be happy by having friends. But to do so not in way where friends become pure utility or pleasure-sources for me (the argument of Nicomachean Ethics BK VIII).

For the Aristotle stuff, some really good resources on this point: J.L. Ackrill, Terence Irwin, and Martha Nussbaum. There's also http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0520040414 a volume edited by Amelie Rorty that's very helpful on the question you're asking.

I don't think this account will work as well for the Stoics, but I do less work near the Stoics. If memory serves, their account of how virtues work is such that virtues are not pursued simultaneously with happiness. A key distinction in contemporary philosophy that might help is that they distinguish "right" and "good" and make ethics about the "right" whereas for Aristotle, the "good" has priority over the "right".
Your example would be an example of an invalid conversion of a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Categorical_proposition categorical proposition in A-form (All A are B). Such conversions are valid in E and I forms (E-form: No A are B; I-form: Some A are B), but not in A-form. I don't know about a particular term to label this fallacy, except converse error (or a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Converse_(logic)#Categorical_converse categorical converse fallacy), but all the terms https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/30753/2953 suggested in Keelan's answer sounds suitable. 

To me, a set formulation of this is most clear, where A ⊆ B ↛ B ⊆ A.
As per my comment above, a bit improved:

In e.g. economics utility may be measured, but is not comparable between individuals. That is because it is representable only in an ordinal scale (a BIG problem for economics, actually). That means you can express 'x is better than y', but not 'x is by the factor of k better than y'. Ethical values are the same. 

The order of values often defines destinct societies and sometimes is forcefully shared within societies, though. One example of the latter is the german constitution where the values are ranked through the number of the article in the first 19 ones (human rights). In general, juriciary is the most reliable source regarding that. 

But it's not like you will ever find an utilitarian saying "Oh well life preserving 10 points, preserving from torture...err...6,8734 and helping grannies like 3,2!". 
I think this is a slight misunderstanding. While the Formula of Autonomy (Ak. 434) is in some sense combining the Formula of Natural Law and the Formula of Humanity (see Ak. 436), the "kingdom" of ends (translation problem! "Reich" is defined as "systematic interconnection of rational beings through their laws" (own translation, Ak. 433), kingdom is misleading here!) adds an interpersonal component that reaches further and is thought as a limitational concept [Grenzbegriff] to the kindom of nature [Reich der Natur] in which it should be thought as realizable (Ak. 438).

Regarding the actual formula: The difference is, as already pointed out, the systematic interconnection by laws. You may be able to abstract from your subjective standpoint regarding one maxim, thinking it as a law of nature. The same with one maxim considering the end-in-itselfessness of rational beings. But it is another thing to think all this within a system of such laws and individuals. It highlights in some sense the consequences of my recognition as lawmaking in other rational beings.

BUT in Ak. 436 it is clearly stated that "these three formulas" are "objectivly-practical" the same. While it is still heavily discussed which three formulations are meant here, it seems clear to me that they all only do highlight one aspect of the concept of the categorical imperative each, but do not loose their essential identity as types of it (the formulation from the later Critique of Practical Reason). So technically speaking, they are all the same and combining them does not add anything. 

All formulations represent only different ways we can grasp the categorical imperative with intuitions [Anschauungen], by types (this is already implied by the "subjective-practical difference" in the GMM, Ak. 436), as there cannot possibly be any intuition of it as such, because we are not capable of pure intuitions, i.e. we cannot directly apply it in the realm of nature (thought as the sum of all experience) because it does not obey our boundaries of experience (the categories). We have no scheme (Schema) for it in its "perfect", general form. These points are also from the second Critique.

Last point, restating and fleshing out the second sentence of this answer after all: The universal moral law is the general rule including all these aspects simply because of its generality, leaving out any specification (Ak. 436-7 and 402/420-1; hence the Foundational Law of Morals in his second Critique), therefore the aspects thought as combined in GMM are the one highlighted in the Formula of Natural Law with the one in the Formula of Humanity (under above mentioned restrictions).

Henry E. Allison discusses this topic to some extent in his Kant's Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals: A Commentary, but gets to conclusions different from mine in some points. It would nevertheless be a good starting point for further readings.
I do not see a difference between utility and extrinsic value. In particular your example concerning the extrinsic value of money shows, that money is useful to obtain a certain goal.

You ask


  how can emotions be useful?


The list of emotions comprises fear, anxiety, pleasure, joy, contempt, disgust, curiosity, hope, disappointment, expectation, exaltation, depressiveness. 

Emotions are flexible (emotional conditioning): There is no fixed attachment which links a certain experience with a set of emotions. E.g., some people experience pleasure about a certain movie while others feel disappointment.

From a biological point of view, one can ask for the function of linking experiences with emotions, i.e. for the utility of emotions. One answer is that  emotions serve as a marker of stored experience. As a consequence, in a new situation we have quick access to our stored experience by activation of the corresponding emotion.
Hence also emotions are useful. One can discuss whether from a biological point of view intrinsic value exists at all.

Of course, the viewpoint of biology is only one possible approach. At least since the Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle a professional conversation has been conducted about values and the question whether an intrinsic value exist as a final guide of life.  
Without some better definition of "fact" and "theory" the question makes little sense to me, and hardly seems resolvable by simple logic.

It looks more like an example of the self-refuting nature of skepticism. Or an antinomy based on a false distinction. If we are to take (3) as a "fact" of some sort, then isn't it refuted if (1+2) constitutes a rudimentary "theory"... and equally refuted if it does not?

Or it is refuted by something like "common sense" in the way that Berkeley is. There is no convincing basis for "theorizing" that there are "no theory-independent facts," just as we cannot "prove" there are no "mind-independent objects" without recourse to mind, and it all tumbles into nonsense.

On the other hand, it is easy to accept some pragmatic idea of "fact" and that there are no absolutely stable facts because there are no absolutely completed theories. Nothing wrong with that. The "for-now-sort-of facts" are fragilely embedded in some Quinean web.  

In any case, it seems to me there is nothing analytically wrong with (1) and (2), provided (1) gets rid of the vague "we cannot" to read: "No facts can be established without a theory." One could then assert, provided "facts" are things that must be "established," that there are no "theory-independent facts." Pretty meaningless.  

But (3) as given is just a non sequitur. It requires something like (2.5) "There are no theories" or "There are no theories fully established by the facts." Then the circularity becomes evident.    
I think that rather than Rationality, what you are after is Rationalism.  It is quite easy to be quite rational without being rationalistic.

Rationalistic metaphysics tries to motivate all understanding, or at least as large a part as is in any way possible entirely from intuition and logic, and to rely upon experience as little as possible.  There are in fact a wide range of deeply rationalistic forms of metaphysics, and it may constitute a majority of the subject historically.  So yes, you will find it there.

Such metaphysics generally automatically assume human rational psychology is simply correct, so they tend to favor concepts like God, and the value of autonomy and self-respect, which seem to come naturally to humans, even if they end up not fitting into experience very well.  (If we turn starkly toward experience, we become used to the notion of cause and effect, which tends to make us feel mechanical and unfavored, and often not really autonomous, or acquainted with God.)

If a pointer toward these systems is in fact what you are asking, I would suggest that idealists such as Spinoza or Berkely are the most basic examples of deeply rationalistic philosophies, but I would say the best example is Kant, who works very hard at accommodating our ability to learn from experience while refusing to allow encountered reality to ever contravene rationalism.
The argument is given in the Second Analogy, and is very convoluted. There are competing reconstructions by Guyer and Friedman, see https://books.google.com/books?id=XIIsaGoHshoC&source=gbs_navlinks_s Watkins's Kant and the Metaphysics of Causality, p.203 or https://books.google.com/books?id=1_eWTLFionoC&source=gbs_navlinks_s Kitcher's Kant's Transcendental Psychology, p. 174.  More broadly, "the project of the Analogies is to show that we can
apply temporal concepts to objects—we can assign them determinate
places in time—only if we can apply the concepts of substance, cause,
and community to them", according to Kitcher. Here is Kant himself:


  "In our case I must therefore derive the subjective succession of apprehension
  from the objective succession of appearances, since the former is
  otherwise entirely undetermined and distinguishes no appearance from
  any other. The former [succession] alone proves nothing about the connection
  in the manifold, because it is entirely arbitrary. The latter [succession]
  will therefore consist in the order of the manifold of appearance
  according to which the apprehension of the one [state] (that which happens)
  follows on that of the other (which precedes), according to a rule... It is therefore only in respect of a rule according to which appearances
  [objects] in their succession, that is, as they occur, are determined by the
  preceding state that I make my subjective synthesis (of apprehension)
  objective, and it is only under this presupposition that the experience itself
  of something that happens is possible".


In psychological terms (which Kant would likely reject) and very roughly, he argues that since perceptions do not come with time stamps attached causality is needed to arrange them in the "right", "objective" order. Hence causality is the "condition of possibility of the unified experience in time". 

Like all of Kant's "transcendental arguments" this one is not a deductive argument, but an analysis of an apparent problem followed by a clever suggestion on how to solve it. But no matter how clever the resolution, there is no way to establish that it is the only one possible (something Fichte will vehemently deny later for his transcendental arguments, explaining the alternatives arrived at by others by their lack of "philosophical genius"). Here is Kitcher's summary of why the argument falls short of Kant's goals:


  "In the Second Analogy, Kant discovers a truly puzzling fact about human
  cognition. States of affairs do not wear temporal locations on their
  sleeves and all our perceptions are successive, so how do we tell when we are observing succession in the world? Kant's transcendental psychology
  is sound in laying out the problem, but is he right in the claim
  he most wants to establish, that the recognition of temporal position
  depends on interpreting the world causally? Here, as in the case of the
  Euclidean nature of spatial perception, his positive suggestion is less
  compelling than his basic account of the task. Although we must have
  some way of making temporal determinations, "the" way may be an
  aggregate of many ways.
  
  There is an obvious logic to Kant's suggestion. We need a mark or
  symptom of succession in time, and since effects follow their causes,
  establishing causal relations would do the job. However, there appear
  to be other low-level and high-level ways to accomplish the same task.
  At the lower level, the discovery of motion detectors suggests that we
  need not appeal to the contents of states at all... We also appear to make temporal judgments by tacitly appealing to ordering principles that involve content but not causal relations... Arthur Melnick offers a recent version. He suggests that we can be directly aware of succession because two states of affairs could succeed each other in the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specious_present "specious" present."

See Euclid's http://aleph0.clarku.edu/~djoyce/java/elements/bookVII/bookVII.html#defs Elements, Book VII, Defs.1&2 :


  
  A unit is that by virtue of which each of the things that exist is called one.
  A number is a multitude composed of units.
  


See also:


Thomas Heath, https://books.google.it/books?id=J-kaAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA69 A History of Greek Mathematics : Vol.I (1921), page 69 :



  Aristotle observes that the One is reasonably regarded as not being itself a number, because a measure is not the thing measured, but the measure or the One is the beginning (or principle) of number.
  But note that for Greek math the only numbers are the natural ones and they must be distinguished from magnitudes : a segment, a square, ... which are "measured by" numbers.


In ancient Greek mathematics there are two different types of "basic" entities: numbers and magnitudes; there are no negative or rational numbers, but only magnitudes measurable with multiples of a suitable unit one.

Numbers (https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E1%BC%80%CF%81%CE%B9%CE%B8%CE%BC%CF%8C%CF%82#Ancient_Greek arithmós) are used for counting some number of things taken as uniform when counted; they are counted as “objects.” That word which is pronounced last in counting off or numbering, gives the https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/aristotle-mathematics/#10 “counting-number”, the arithmos [see Plato, http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0172%3Atext%3DTheaet.%3Asection%3D198c Theaetetus, 198c ].

Thus the arithmos indicates a definite number of definite things. It proclaims that there are precisely so and so many of these things.

See also http://aleph0.clarku.edu/~djoyce/java/elements/bookX/bookX.html Euclid, Book X: units are counted while magnitudes are measured.

Ans see http://aleph0.clarku.edu/~djoyce/java/elements/bookVII/propVII1.html Euclid, Book VII: 


  The less of two unequal numbers [...] being continually subtracted from the greater...


Subtraction is used always this way: the greater "minus" the less. In this way, no negative quantities will be produced.
Hegel comments negatively on this argument in https://play.google.com/books/reader?printsec=frontcover&output=reader&id=OdFBAQAAMAAJ&pg=GBS.PA227 Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion (vol 1. p. 227)


  It is frequently said that in his will man is inﬁnite; while in his understanding, his power of know ledge, he is ﬁnite. To say this is childish; the opposite is much nearer the truth.


On the same page, Hegel explains his objection to this position:


  In willing, a man. confronts an Other, he isolates himself as an individual, he has in himself a purpose, an intent with regard to an Other, he behaves as if separated from that Other, and thus finitude comes in. In his acts man _has an end before him, and such action essentially requires that the content, the end, should exist, should lose the form of an idea, or in other words, that the end in view being, to begin with, subjective, should have this subjectivity taken away from it, and thus at length attain to objective existence.


I will try to reword that here. Hegel maintains that an act of will requires the self to make itself particular (thus denying premise 4). It's a bit hard to follow but the basic idea is that to will something requires having a particular objective and that to have a particular object means that the self must also take up a particular position. In the process, the thing we will loses the formal nature that makes it universal.

An analogy might help, in a sense, someone can will "to get a girlfriend" and that seems pretty broad, but the moment he wills towards getting any particular girlfriend, he's not willing an idea that's universal but a particular thing.

Moreover (as Philip Klöcking helpfully notes), Hegel believes this permeates the activity of the will. When the will engages in acts of willing, it always does so by selecting an object and thus restricting itself. Thus, for Hegel, will is by definition finite. 

For Hegel, this is particular bad because the human self is Spirit (a technical term for Hegel) which is unlimited and infinite. And it can achieve this unlimited and infinite nature only in knowing the infinite (this is a central claim of his Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion but is made explicit several times between pages 200 and 300). 

Hegel's denial of premise 4 is an en passant move in his larger denial of premise 3! Interestingly, Hegel thinks that we can know the infinite specifically as God, and that the mistake is to know God as a particular. In the process, the self qua thinking Spirit is at one with the object of Spirit (rather than being up and against an object as in the case particular acts of will).



Interestingly, this to will is to make the self finite and particular is also central in Hegel's critique of Kant which can be found in Phenomenology of Spirit, Natural Law, Philosophy of Right  (which may also make oblique reference to Descartes model but no where that I can recall is as clear as the above passage on the Descartes' angle). (For further reading on its success or failure, there's Allen Wood, Hegel's Ethical Thought and Kant's Ethical Thought (along with an article in Ethics); Sally Sedgwick has a few article that seem to repeat similar themes; it's also touched on in commentaries on Hegel's works such as Charles Taylor, Hegel (1975), Dudley Knowles' Hegel and the Philosophy of Right , Adriaan Peperzak Modern Freedom, and articles by Kenneth Westphal and Thom Brooks)
In the development of man different stages of enlightenment occur. Simplified these stages can be put into four categories:


The understanding of the power in power itself. Power being defined as: control of things given a value: money, weapons, technology and sow on.
The understanding of developing power, creating new technology, building a financial system. Here power is still defined as above.
The understanding of power as a unity. Now the definition of power changes: It is not only what I, the man, have, it is what I and them I'm united with, have. 
The understanding that power is merely made up. Money is just paper given a value. It is made by man because man is greedy for power. 


Eksampels: 


By acquiring more goods, by possessing objects (objects: everything manmade), you have trading goods, the ability not to starve and can now cover your basic needs.
By using time and effort you can develop your ability of acquiring, get better at collecting data, barriers or whatever, end though this realize what you are good at and on which fields you are lacking knowledge. How can your system be developed?
Now, you, from step 2 being as developed as you can be, other inputs is needed to further develop. to further gain power. You group in big companies, states, families anything that can gain you power. Though knowledge, politics or even strength.  
You now realize that power has no limit, and the whole powerplay is created in fear of lacking power.  It is mounted in angst (danish word created by Kirkegård eng:Kirkegaard). It is only by acknowledging that power, as defined in the first category, is nothing more than a piece of paper created out off angst. Rise above angst and you will have true power. 


In summery: People that are greedy are the ones who are left on the 1. perhaps 2. step. They are not jet understanding the power in unity and they are far from understanding the indifference of traditional power. This is why greed, bribery and corruption exist. It comes from failure to realize what power is. 

Your question should have been: "What is power?" this is interesting!

One note: The above is simplyfied, to cover more read Kirkegaard, Enten/eller (eng: Either/or). Great book, best in danish! 
Someone like Kuhn might argue that "the bar is lower" for all pre- or inter-paradigmatic sciences.  The reasons that we can demand compliance with a standard is there is an understood and accepted standard.

Clinical Psychology is a parallel example.  One can look at Freud and shake one's head at his strange evasiveness, which made for a science so weak it prompted people to put up walls against considering it science.  But without Freud, a lot of later people would never have said things that are genuinely useful.

Philology and therefore Literary Criticism is, unfortunately or otherwise, a domain that borrows paradigms until they come to mean something, and when they do not pay off, it moves on.  So there is no paradigm, unless one chooses one.  Subdisciplines of the field do have paradigms.  If you choose to work in a paradigm, one should hold oneself to the standards already set by earlier contributors.

(On that basis, one might say that it is just as demanding unless you want to innovate.  Being caught up in the paradigm of the day may actually be a form of laziness.  It be something that makes literary analysis worse, if a different lens would suit the author better.)
"For example if a politician who's corrupt accuses another one of being corrupt ..."

This is a defence mechanism called 'splitting and projection'.  The psychological model is that the offender unconsciously splits off his bad behaviour - actually doesn't believe it's his own behaviour.  Thinks it must be the world's or someone else's fault.  Then he projects the fault onto a handy scapegoat or opponent.

This defence mechanism has been extraordinarily successful in human evolution.  It seems to blindside the opponent, most likely because the offender has such belief and conviction that the opponent is at fault that the opponent is bamboozled and put on the back-foot.  Once you know about splitting and projecting it becomes easier to fathom and to handle.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splitting_(psychology)#Melanie_Klein Melanie Klein was the psychologist who first wrote about this in 'object relations theory', dealing with child psychology and cognitive integration.

I dare say some people knowingly use the pattern of this defence mechanism in deliberate denial and deflection, but the original psychological mechanism is unconscious.  Once the child fails to integrate and acknowledge their faulty behaviour the tendency to split off their faults can persist into adulthood.  You would have to try to determine for yourself whether an adult is unconsciously splitting and projecting or cynically and knowingly denying and deflecting.

Quoting an interesting reference from http://tamarajournal.com/index.php/tamara/article/viewFile/216/pdf_48 ENRON: Taking our cue from the world of
object relations, page 5.


  while not providing a psychological portrait of Fastow, we do consider
  Fastow's behavior at Enron as exhibiting the classic hallmarks of the
  psychodynamic process of splitting, or splitting behavior—a
  psychodynamic process that also is part of the object-relations
  orientation. This notion of splitting comes from the work of the
  famous psychoanalyst Melanie Klein (1975). Splitting behavior
  fundamentally involves dichotomizing the world into 'good' objects and
  'bad' objects as part of a paranoid-schizoid defensive condition. It
  is a regressive defensive reactive process in which the world can get
  divided into 'us' and 'them'. In the face of unpleasant and
  fundamentally different views, individuals exhibit this process at
  play with the dichotomizing being manifest in acts of generalization,
  distortion, concealment, manipulation, and alike. The nature of the
  splitting is such that "the introjections of good objects and
  projections of bad objects and parts of the self render him relatively
  independent of others and free of guilt at the price of distrust of
  others and overestimation of himself (Rycroft, 1995, p. 162).


(emphasis added)

Introjection of good objects means owning one's good qualities; the bad ones are split off and projected.

If you need a one-liner fallacy you could do worse than "the pot calling the kettle black".
The position you describe is a non-naturalist one defined most succinctly by G.E Moore in what has become known as the "Open Question Argument". Essentially, Moore argued that when we say something is 'good' we have not defined 'good' other than in a tautological sense. For example, if we say personal well-being is good, and declare this to be a fact, then personal well-being must become synonymous with good, so the statement above would read "good is good". This would obviously be uninformative (a closed question), whereas, Moore argues, "personal well-being is good" is a statement about which one might debate (an open question) and therefore has not defined 'good' analytically.

This approach, however, is not without it's flaws. Bertrand Russell argues in his Elements of Ethics, that 'Good' can be defined by examples designed to generate the idea of good in our minds in much the same way as we cannot 'define' the colour red other than by showing someone a collection of things all of which are red. By this notion, it doesn't matter that we cannot linguistically express 'good' other than by tautology because all the sentences we use are doing is helping to bring the concept to mind.

It can also be refuted by, at some point on the open question, closing it empirically, or by some belief statement. If, for example, one were to ask whether Queen Elizabeth were the Queen of England in 2017, that might be a meaningful question despite the fact that some empirical investigation might yield the knowledge that the two concepts "Queen Elizabeth" and "The Queen of England in 2017" were, in fact synonymous.

Finally, you could resolve the issue in materialism. You say 'Good' and 'Bad' might be "...just our perception of an action" as if it were possible, or perhaps desirable, that they were something more than that, but we are all human beings, and it is reasonable to suppose that the concept of 'Goodness' evolved through natural selection to serve some evolutionary purpose and so whilst it may be "just" our own personal opinion, that opinion is not only likely to be very similar among all humans, but more importantly, we could say with some authority that a person claiming x is good, where x is something most people consider bad, is likely to be deluding themselves, rather than making an honest statement about their internal state of mind.

It may well be that 'Good' and 'Bad' are just our own personal opinions, but that may still leave them as definitions, described by example, which one could use to make objective moral judgements.
Logical formulae are blind to the content of the assertions that fill them in, and evaluations of logical validity are accordingly content-blind. One can substitute for "P" and "Q" any given sentence, affirmative or negative, universal or existential, or otherwise. One gets to evaluate the content when considering the soundness of the argument.
The simple answer is: yes.

Your examples above use modus tollens, one of the most commonly known valid argument formats.  Deductive validity is about abstract format exclusively, not about the content of the premises.

The reason arguments involving conditional statements (as the ones above do) are valid or invalid here may help.  What the first premise states is in the abstract format "If A, then B."  What A and B are really expressing are necessary and sufficient conditions (hence calling it a "conditional").  What "If A, then B" asserts is actually a relationship between A and B.  This is so no no matter what you're using for either (true, false, unknown, or nonsense).

In formal logic, the argument would run like this:
P1. A -> B        (If A is true, then B is true)
P2. ~B            ("Not" B - B is not true)
Therefore, ~A.    (Not A - A is not true)

What's happened?  A and B are asserted in (1) to have a certain relationship to each other in which A is sufficient for concluding B (A is enough by itself to show B's truth), and at the same time, B is necessary for A (B must be true, otherwise A is false, but B may not be sufficient).  Since the second premise goes on to state that we "don't have" B - it's false - and the first premise asserts, in part, that we have to have B to have A... but we don't have B... it follows that we don't have A either.

So using one of your examples above:
P1. If God does not exist, there are no objective moral values.
P2. There are objective moral values.
Therefore, God exists.

A = God does not exist.
B = There are no objective moral values.
(These are both actually negated, and thus P2 and the conclusion would wind up being double negation, but that's complicating matters unnecessarily for an explanation, since ~~P (not not-P) is equivalent in truth to P.)

What P1 is asserting is that God's non-existence is sufficient for concluding that there are no objective moral values.  At the same time, it's also asserting that the non-existence of objective moral values is a necessary condition for God's non-existence.

I highly doubt that P1 is true, because I don't think the relationship between the two holds, but that does not make the argument invalid.  It makes it unsound.
First off, let's split your claim into two parts. The claim that Aristotle says "ethical virtue  ... [is] encompassed by pleasure and pain" or something to that effect is utterly and completely false.

The the part that says "Aristotle describes ethical virtue as relating to pleasure and pain" is true and comes from Book I and again in Book II of the Nicomachean Ethics.

But we need to be very careful in understanding how they relate for Aristotle.

First off, let's give a basic definition of hedonism. I will take hedonism here to mean that the goal of life is pleasure and the good is to have as much pleasure as possible.

On this definition, Aristotle is not a hedonist. 

For Aristotle, pleasure accompanies being ethically good for the phronemos (the man of practical wisdom). For the rest of us, we can have these signals go terribly wrong (this is all in Book II of the Nicomachean Ethics). Pleasure is then a symptom of being ethical for the right kind of person.

As an analogy, we go to the doctor when we have things like fevers or coughs, but the doctor diagnoses the problem that is really ailing us. Generally, a fever is the body fighting off an infection and a cough is a response to something like phlegm collecting in the lungs. For Aristotle, the person who is practicing excellence (virtue) will get pleasure out of this excellence. But a person who is not virtuous will (sometimes) get pleasure from things that a truly virtuous person who find unpleasant. The same occurs in reverse for pain. In other words, pleasure/pain are not good signals for Aristotle.

Returning to the hedonism question, for Aristotle, the goal is excellence in performing the human function (Books I-VIII) or excellence in theoria (Books IX-X). That pleasure accompanies this is that the human function is what we are meant to do. But upbringing and other things that can skew our ability to perceive this signals.

Again,

hedonism = the good is pleasure and its pursuit.

Aristotle = the good is excellence and its pursuit, and if you do it right you will also get happiness and pleasure.

A second argument could also be offered by looking at how Aristotle considers friendship in BK VIII. There he divides friendship into three categories:


Friends of utility
Friends of pleasure
Friends of virtue


The first two categories are temporal and inadequate and Aristotle does not think they are true forms of friendship.

Sources

J.L. Ackrill, Aristotle: the Philosopher

Amélie Oksenberg Rorty ed. Essays on Aristotle's Ethics, University of California Press, 1980. (especially the articles by Nagel, Irwin, Akrill, Annas)

others
Affects are transindividual, if that helps — they may pass through subjects, but they’re situated fundamentally in a pre-individual “milieu” or context/environment. Consider the specificity involved in a certain degree of heat — heat transfers between bodies, at rates related to the bodies interface to each other. The radiation of intensive degrees passes through the entire field; it doesn’t belong to subjects, though they may participate in the dissipation or intensification. 

But even speeds are also this way: pure celerities which activate bodies. Thought is an extensive fluid medium of which each individual has a tiny “flux” which seems to belong to them, but which pre-exists and extends beyond them. Simondon is the key reference here on the problem of the pre-individual and trans-individual (as opposed to the “merely” inter-individual...)

Another quick thought here might be about the molecularity of affects: the way they participate only in an indirect and statistical way in the construction of molar properties (like the emotive flux of sentient bodies.) Their primordial reality, where they have full existence, is the pre-individual field of intensities, from which individuals emerge and fall back. (A glorious body without organs...) There are links here to Spinozism and substance-monism that might be interesting to pursue: the perfect innocence of becoming and affects as movements rather than subjects, operating pre-individual intensities on a differential plane. Affects transdifferentiate bodies; are “learning” or “healing” emotions, exactly? Do they really belong to you the way your joy or sadness do?

Deleuze is the key reference in my mind, though again it is effectively a Spinozist-Nietzschean concept “maximized” by Simondonian analyses of the pre-individual, inter-individual, trans-individual, etc. —Klossowski might be another jumping off point, who shows how some feelings participate in movements which tend to dissolve or “forget” the individual identity.
I suggest utilitarianism versus Kantianism. It's a standard opposition, so in 
tackling it you are getting well into established ethical discussions. Mill did say in ch. 1 of 'Utilitarianism' that the practical working out of Kant's theories involves an appeal to consequences which grants Mill's own, utilitarian position. However, if correct, this would only show that Kant and Mill are capable of reaching the same conclusions, not that their routes to those conclusions - the philosophical pathways - are the same. I doubt if Mill would have denied this.

An after-thought : the appeal to authority and cultural relativism can connect, and any clash between them avoided, if the authority is one that is (de facto, only) culture-specific, recognised as an authority only within a culture or set of cultures.

  feeling sad is not good i think


Feeling sad is not a bad thing always.  Almost all of us can give so many instances for this.  Often, solutions to many problems are found because of sadness.  Sometimes this sadness with slight variations becomes sympathy or empathy and this leads to many good activities/inventions.


  i cannot understand the reason to feel sad. can anyone tell me?


Often you feel sad because you have many desires to be fulfilled.  Uneasiness of your body or mind can also make you sad.  

If you don't know the truth fully, it would also make you sad.  Sometimes knowledge of the truth would be the villain.  Fear of something would also make you sad. (All these are also a part of uneasiness of one's mind.) But the 'knowledge' of the Ultimate Truth or strong faith in God rubs off sadness.  


  when someone scolds me even if he is scolding for some good
  cause,i feel sad, why?


This is because you are not quite sure whether that is a good thing and also  that (good thing) would happen smoothly. Something that works against your ego would also make you sad. But this depends on your character. Otherwise the outcome would be in the form of rage.
Kant writes in his Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals:


  The above three ways of representing the principle of morality are
  fundamentally only so many formulae of the selfsame law, one of
  which of itself unites the other two within it. However, there is yet a
  dissimilarity among them, which is indeed subjectively rather than objectively practical, namely to bring an idea of reason closer to intuition
  (according to a certain analogy) and thereby to feeling. (4:436)


The three mentioned ways are the Formula of the Law of Nature (4:421), The Formula of Humanity (4:429) and the Formula of the autonomous will in a Kingdom of Ends (4:434), the last one containing the other two (see Timmermann's Kant’s Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals: A Commentary, Cambridge UP, 2007, pp. 105-6, 109-11). 

All of these three are "closer to intuition (according to a certain analogy)", which is paraphrasing that while a will governed only by morality is "an idea of reason" (which has no correspondence in experience, strictly speaking), i.e. we do not have a concept of it, we can use analogies like "law of nature", "end in itself" and "autonomy in a kingdom of ends" to get an idea of what this could actually mean.

This, Kant states, does not imply an "objectively practical" difference, but only a "subjectively" one. In short: They are objectively the same, they just have a different "feeling" to them.

But in the end, there is https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/a/39640/9148 only one categorical imperative, which is the reason why he is able to state:


  But
  in moral judging it is better always to proceed by the strict method,
  and make the foundation the universal formula of the categorical imperative: act according to the maxim that can make itself at the same time a universal law. If,l however, one wants at the same time to obtain access
  for the moral law, it is very useful to lead one and the same action
  through the said three concepts and thereby, as far as can be done,
  bring it closer to intuition. (4:436-7, bolded PK)


TL;DR

Kant's answer is that if it helps you, you may use all versions as they are objectively the same. But strictly speaking, there is only one single categorical imperative and applying this is always the "best" (most rational) way to judge morality.
Derek Parfit's book http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reasons_and_Persons Reasons and Persons demonstrates that most theories of self-interest are self-defeating; it therefore makes no sense to say that people act purely out of self-interest, or a desire to "feel good."

Furthermore, I think you'll find that the vast majority of people are not http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hedonism Hedonists, and that the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_hedonism Paradox of Hedonism is well known, and well-studied.
You really need to clean up your question: 


First, the situation in which someone asks someone else about a third person is underdescribed: that (the 2nd?) doesn't know (the 3rd?) comes as a surprise.
Then you introduce this idea that we cannot think about nothing (maybe you mean that we cannot not think?), and connect it somehow with, I take it, Descartes' cogito. But the fact that thinking is a proof of existence doesn't entail that not thinking (let alone thinking about nothing) is a proof of nonexistence. 
Finally, we have the "trivial question" whether we can talk of something we have never seen before. It is unclear how this third question is related to anything of the above. 


In any event, that we can think and talk about stuff we are not (in Russell's turn of phrase) acquainted with is unproblematic: we become competent users of a singular term that refers, say, to Socrates (whom neither I nor anyone I know have ever met) by becoming a link in a chain of speakers that takes us all the way back to people that was acquainted with Socrates. We are, as Gareth Evans puts it in "The Varieties of Reference", introduced to a name-using practice. You may want to check Mark Sainsbury's "Reference Without Referents" for a more contemporary discussion of these ideas. In Sainsbury's version of the theory, a name-using practice can exist even in the absence of a referent -- think of the unsuccessful name 'Vulcano', that tried to refer to a (nonexistent) planet between Mercury and the Sun. This would be an example of speech (and thought) without an entity we are thinking or talking about.

Believers in God, hell, and the like, I take it, believe that we have been introduced to name-using practices of terms that refer to those entities: think Moses, or Christ, who were, the story goes, acquainted with some of those things.

An interesting case is our apparent ability to refer to abstracta ("the number 2" successfully refer to the number 2, it seems). Here, of course, acquaintance or causal contact of any kind is impossible. One idea that I find attractive is that we don't really refer to such entities. We merely make believe that we do; we fictionalize about them. For the best worked out theory along these lines, read Kendall Walton's "Mimesis as Make-Believe", or the latest papers by Stephen Yablo on the philosophy of mathematics.

  How can I will a maxim to become a universal law, surely that kind of power can only be wielded by a god? 


He means "will" as "desire" or "intend" here; he's not suggesting that, through the efforts of our will alone, the maxim will actually become a universal law.
It's not a logical fallacy. It's faulty inductive reasoning: as you rightly say, they infer a trend from a finite number of cases in an unwarranted manner.

For that matter, there are many cases in which three fails do not warrant the inference that the person will always fail (consider learning to ride a bicycle).
I think what you´re looking for is generally summed up as "Philosophy of Mind". Since you´re looking for positions, that argue for a seperate mind, you should check out the SEP on Dualism, which is a good start to get into it: http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/dualism/ http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/dualism/   

If you´re looking for a particular author, you could start with Descartes and his Meditations, they are pretty famous and accesible online, e.g. here: http://oregonstate.edu/instruct/phl302/texts/descartes/meditations/meditations.html http://oregonstate.edu/instruct/phl302/texts/descartes/meditations/meditations.html  

I also found "The Philosophy of Mind" by P. Smith and O.R. Jones to be a very good introduction into the topic.
Strictly speaking, the answer to your question depends on what you define to be rational. "Rationality" is not a utility theory; it is essentially just a subjective judgment regarding the quality of your reasoning about such things. For example, if it is held that the best way to lose weight is by eating lots of tofu burgers and nothing else (regardless of whether it's actually true or not), then it is most rational eat lots of tofu burgers if you want to lose weight.

Likewise, if you deem it an immense moral good to win $1 lottery tickets, even when your net gains end up negative, than it is rational to buy lottery tickets.

Call me fastidious, but I just wanted to make that distinction clear. What you perhaps mean to imply then is whether the lottery is rational given the average person's desire of maximizing gains and minimizing losses ("do p and expected utility actually matter for a rational decision?"). At this point, this question no longer becomes a philosophy question and is purely mathematics and your own personal views of what is "rational". Depending on how much "weight" you place on various outcomes and investments, any given lottery may or may not be rational.

http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2023514/Joan-R-Ginther-won-lottery-4-times-Stanford-University-statistics-PhD.html This person who won 4 lotteries seems to think the lottery can be very rational....


Aristotle discusses Ethics in his Nicomachean Ethics, which, as far as I know, is just a set of lecture notes on Ethics which Aristotle compiled himself.

Here are a few points on his theory of Ethics. 


Happiness is defined to be the "most final" link in the chain of reasons of why you want to do something. For example, suppose I want to buy a house. Then I would say that I want to buy it to raise a family in that house. Why do I want to raise a family? Because I want to have companionship. Why do I want to have companionship? To be happy.
The right thing to do is what makes you happy, by definition. Hence, if you do something, you necessarily believe it is the right thing to do.
In order to be happy, one must be virtuous (this is partially justified in his Nicomachean Ethics). Being virtuous involves being temperate, among other things. For this point, going over Nicomachean Ethics yourself would be the most helpful. If I just rattle off some points on virtue then it won't really be helpful.


I hope this helps.
The answer to this question depends on your position on the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Is%E2%80%93ought_problem is-ought problem. David Hume argued that philosophy cannot logically deduce "ought" statements (statements of ethics) from "is" statements (statements of fact). Some philosophers disagree (see, e.g., http://mises.org/rothbard/ethics/ethics.asp Murray Rothbard's The Ethics of Liberty).

If you and your friend agree that there is no gap between is and ought, you should (in theory) be able to resolve your differences using deductive logic alone. If you think there is a gap, you can still use reason and evidence to evaluate the veracity and merits of the competing theories - just not in a way that's 'logically airtight'.
It might be worth going back to when the term Event was first introduced by Derrida in his http://hydra.humanities.uci.edu/derrida/sign-play.html paper Structure, Sign, and Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences presented at a conference in the US to investigate & ratify the idea of Structuralism, but was soon recognised as the beginning of post-structuralism primarily due to Derridas paper. He writes:


  Perhaps something has occurred in the history of the concept of structure that could be called an "event," if this loaded word did not entail a meaning which it is precisely the function of structural-or structuralist-thought to reduce or to suspect. But let me use the term "event" anyway, employing it with caution and as if in quotation marks. In this sense, this event will have the exterior form of a rupture and a redoubling.


and


  If this is so, the whole history of the concept of structure, before the rupture I spoke of, must be thought of as a series of substitutions of center for center, as a linked chain of determinations of the center. Successively, and in a regulated fashion, the center receives different forms or names. The history of metaphysics, like the history of the West, is the history of these metaphors and metonymies.


and


  The event I called a rupture, the disruption alluded to at the beginning of this paper, would presumably have come about when the structurality of structure had to begin to be thought, that is to say, repeated, and this is why I said that this disruption was repetition in all of the senses of this word. 


Now compare this to Badious 'Event - something that disrupts the current situation'.

In the wikipedia entry to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alain_Badiou#Introduction_to_Being_and_Event Badiou, they write that Badiou tries 


  to reconcile a notion of the subject with ontology, and in particular post-structuralist and constructivist ontologies. A frequent criticism of post-structuralist work is that it prohibits, through its fixation on semiotics and language, any notion of a subject.


and 


  the place of the event – which is seen as a rupture in being – through which the subject finds realization and reconciliation with truth


Badiou theorises about the Event & Being in terms of axiomatic set theory in a way that is distinct from Philosophers and Mathematicians which make it obscure.
Short answer: 

Foucault avoids programmatic statements and rarely passes judgments. It would be safe to say that yes, indeed, Foucault simply offers a descriptive analysis without value judgments and "solutions". Foucault does not believe that the role of the intellectual is to tell others what to do. However, we may also add that by choosing to focus his research on madness, sexuality or biopolitics Foucault does show a certain bias: that these issues need attention, or, as Foucault usually puts it, that there is something "dangerous" about them.

Long answer:

What is biopower?

Biopower is the power over life itself. It will be helpful to contrast biopower with the sovereign power, as Foucault does himself on several occasions. Before the 18th century in the West, or so the argument goes, power operates primarily by "deduction" (HoS1, 136). The sovereign takes stuff away from his subjects: land, produce, and ultimately life. Sovereign power shows itself and asserts itself in these brief moments when a life is to be taken away (usually as a matter of public spectacle). The right of sovereignty is "the right to take life or let live" (SMD, 241 / HoS1, 136).

Biopower is the reversal of this relationship. It actively promotes life or lets die. Not that "bare life" has never been an issue before, but it was around the 18th century, argues Foucault, that it became an issue for politics:


  For the first time in history, no doubt, biological existence was
  reflected in political existence; the fact of living was no longer an
  inaccessible substrate that only emerged from time to time, amid the
  randomness of death and its fatality; part of it passed into
  knowledge's field of control and power's sphere of intervention. Power
  would no longer be dealing simply with legal subjects over whom the
  ultimate dominion was death, but with living beings, and the mastery
  it would be able to exercise over them would have to be applied at the
  level of life itself; it was the taking charge of life, more than the
  threat of death, that gave power its access even to the body. (HoS1,
  142-143)


Biopower operates on the level of populations. It is, in a sense, myopic in respect to particular individuals. The issues of concern for biopower are, for example, hygiene, health, birth and mortality rate. All of the above become objects of active manipulation:


  The mechanisms introduced by biopolitics include forecasts,
  statistical estimates, and overall measures. And their purpose is not
  to modify any given phenomenon as such, or to modify a given
  individual insofar as he is an individual, but, essentially, to
  intervene at the level at which these general phenomena are
  determined, to intervene at the level of their generality. The
  mortality rate has to be modiﬁed or lowered; life expectancy has to be
  increased; the birth rate has to be stimulated. And most important of
  all, regulatory mechanisms must be established to establish an
  equilibrium, maintain an average, establish a sort of homeostasis, and
  compensate for variations within this general population and its
  aleatory ﬁeld. In a word, security mechanisms have to be installed
  around the random element inherent in a population of living beings so
  as to optimize a state of life. Like disciplinary mechanisms, these
  mechanisms are designed to maximize and extract forces, but they work
  in very different ways. Unlike disciplines, they no longer train
  individuals by working at the level of the body itself. There is
  absolutely no question relating to an individual body, in the way that
  discipline does. It is therefore not a matter of taking the individual
  at the level of individuality but, on the contrary, of using overall
  mechanisms and acting in such a way as to achieve overall states of
  equilibration or regularity; it is, in a word, a matter of taking
  control of life and the biological processes of man-as-species and of
  ensuring that they are not disciplined, but regularized. (SMD, 245-6)


The focus of biopower is on increasing the productive forces of bodies (SMD, 242). If the population is healthy and plentiful, for example, it will work more and produce more. Capitalism and biopower, for Foucault, go hand in hand:


  This bio-power was without question an indispensable element in the
  development of capitalism; the latter would not have been possible
  without the controlled insertion of bodies into the machinery of
  production and the adjustment of the phenomena of population to
  economic processes. ... The adjustment of the accumulation of men to
  that of capital, the joining of the growth of human groups to the
  expansion of productive forces and the differential allocation of
  profit, were made possible in part by the exercise of bio-power in its
  many forms and modes of application. The investment of the body, its
  valorization, and the distributive management of its forces were at
  the time indispensable. (HoS1, 140-141)


Some implications

Once again, Foucault's aim is to describe rather than prescribe. However, if we had to extrapolate some of the "dangerous" features of biopower from the discussion above they could be that biopower


is blind to personal circumstances and personal misery
prefers quantity to quality (is it, for example, "good" to simply
live a long life or are we interested in how it is lived?)
is to some extent coterminous with capitalism and that's a can of worms on its own


One example. As it was mentioned above, biopower is exercised across populations (regularization of birth rates, longevity etc.) and is myopic to particular individuals. It promotes life or lets die. An interesting example of the problematic nature of this approach is the http://www.fidh.org/IMG/pdf/fo-report.pdf "left-to-die boat" case. In 2011 sixty three Lybian migrants died after drifting for fourteen days in an area heavily monitored by NATO. They were noticed, of course, but all kinds of complex maritime jurisdiction trickery was used to avoid responsibility for rescuing the Lybians. Abstaining from rescue can be as potent a killing as targeted murder. Governing migration, and especially when it comes to refugees, is the prime and telling example of biopolitics in action.

References

HoS1: Foucault, M. (1978). The History of sexuality: An Introduction. New York: Pantheon Books.

SMD: Foucault, M. (2003). Society Must be Defended. (M. Bertani, A. Fontana, F. Ewald, A. I. Davidson, Eds., & D. Macey, Trans.) New York: Picador. 
This looks suspiciously like something from an anecdote of Feynman from one of his popular collection of raconteuring tales to be told round a barbeque with a crowd of admiring physicists-in-waiting.

Now, an electron is an essential object in modern physics; but no physicist will refer to it in that way - the usual terminology is a fundamental particle. It looks similar, but it isn't - as both these terms fundamental AND particle have certain meanings within the discipline of physics that one imbibes as one studies the subject.

Essence is something that was begun to be discussed in antiquity - it has a long history that I'm not acquainted with. I imagine it is this tradition that feeds into Whiteheads book. To understand why he is interested in this - one should look at the tradition so that the term has some meaning.

EDIT

According to Aristotle, essence is what defines a something as opposed to merely talking about its existence. Horses have essences and so do bricks & electrons, but these only secondarily. It is substances that have essences primarily. This is the proper sense of essence. So the question should be refined - do electrons & bricks have essences primarily? The answer is, they do if they are substances. 

Now, a substance is neccesarily self-subsistent.

Hence a brick is obviously not a substance. 

But is an electron? If we consider it to be fundamental as in QFT, that is atomic then it appears possibly yes. But this actually cannot be correct for do we not require spacetime for it to be in? So, no; it is not a substance. 

But suppose QFT is only an approximation to String Theory. Then strings are fundamental and electrons are not - they are vibrations of strings. Strings are not atomic since a string can always be split given enough energy - that is it is infinitely divisible. But they are neccessary to build matter. But are they self-subsistent? No, they are not. For they also require space-time. So, even in this theory they are not substances.

Now suppose there was a hypothetical theory in which spacetime & electrons were vibrations of let us suppose of strings. Then are they substances? I think this time yes. For I can always imagine fewer strings, or just a string by itself. So, here strings are substances and are primarily essential. But, still an electron being a vibration of a string is not primarily essential.
Most contemporary philosophers accept that relativism is self-refuting. 

By "relativism," in this sense, I mean what I take Plato to being arguing against in the dialogues Theaetetus and Sophist. It is committed to two views: 


There are no objective truths. By "objective truth" I mean a truth which one must believe, or else be rightly considered irrational. Similarly, we could understand a truth to be objective if a being — even an alien from another planet — would agree to it, were the alien to have knowledge and understanding of the same things. The mass of a pebble is an example. You can express it in English, Spanish, Korean, or hexadecimal notation, or (maybe?) Klingon, but it all translates to the same fact, or else isn't true. Relativism denies that there are any truths like that.
There are, however, local truths, says the relativist, whose truth is merely relative to the culture or other group believing them. Relativists say about these latter kinds of truths that they are "true FOR X" where X is a culture or community, or even an individual. Relativists do not therefore deny the existence of truths, but understand all truths to be relative truths with currency only among a community that believes them.


This form of relativism, which we might call "general relativism" to separate it from "moral relativism," is generally considered self-refuting, and therefore untenable. It suggests that there are no truths that hold objectively, but it insists that the claims above are objective truths.

Consider, that is, what a relativist would have to say about relativism: "Relativism is true for me but maybe not for you," in which case we have no reason to accept it. Indeed, if the relativist is right, relativism can have no sway over us, because a thing can be made true simply by being believed, and made false simply by not being believed. Or the relativist could say  "Relativism is objectively true," in which case Relativism simply contradicts itself.
Of course to answer this question properly one would need to understand what is meant by the three terms - space, time & matter - in Spinozas time. Given that Spinoza was influenced by Descarte who himself had been influenced by the success of the new mechanics as exemplified by Newton & Galileo - perhaps the correct place to start are the assumptions made there as exemplified by Newtonian Mechanics, briefly, that space is everywhere the same and that times passes in a homogenous manner everywhere. 

how does one use Spinozas system to clarify the status of what time & space is? 

One might say for example, that extension itself is the very essence of space. 
If matter and space share this essence, could this mean that they are different manifestations of a one unique essence? That although time passes for us in an immediate sense, the character of time in Newtonian Mechanics is the line (suitably understood), so again its essence is extension.

This at least is consistent with the standard view that Spinoza gave God an infinity of essences with only two of the essences being cognisable - extenson and thought - through their modes - with ideas a mode of thought, and matter a mode of extension. In this interpretation, it seems to hold, that time and space cannot be modes of thought, thus they are modes of extension.

So, although matter is usually given in expositions of Spinozas thought as a mode of extension; it seems to follow from his geometrical method that both time & space are too.

This doesn't mean to say that Spinoza has anticipated Einsteins theory, it is an exposition of Newtonian ideas of time & space in Spinozoan terms. One could argue, though, if the essence of matter, time & space is one and the same; then perhaps it could be possible to change one into the other.

This is in fact part of Einsteins achievement. He showed that time & space are interconvertible in quantitative terms; matter wasn't. Lord kelvin suggested that matter could be understood geometrically as a knot - that is as a pure extension. In fact, the main line of both mathematical and physical thinking, in the western tradition, at least, is to reduce phenomena to geometry - that is extension.
To me it sounds like just inaccurate speech, not like a paradox.

I can imagine someone who has the goal to fail his math exam, and succeeds in doing so.

Using "succeed" and "fail" in a general sense makes the sentence not well founded, at least.
I think this boils down to an ultimately unenlightening language game, though it may take some thought to conclude as much.

Suppose we restrict perfection to things that exist.  Suppose that we now knock over a glass of milk on the floor and have milk and broken glass all over the floor.  This state of affairs is then "perfect" because although there was a glass with milk in a preferred configuration a little while ago, there is not any more; and although there are other glasses and there is other milk (and milk in glasses), those glasses are not this glass.  So our broken glass and spilled milk all over the floor is perfect.

But what have we gained beyond simply saying that the broken glass and milk all over the floor exists?  Pretty much nothing.  The point of language is to communicate, and we have taken a colloquial concept of "perfect" and turned it into a meaningless identifier that is synonymous with existence.

Let's not do that.  There are better ways to use language.

So, no, our existence is not perfect since, for instance, we can imagine an existence without influenza which would be superior and completely consistent with physical laws (though not the entire history of life on earth).  At least, if we use the word "perfect" in this way, it will facilitate communication about such concepts.  (Relevant if, for instance, we manage to eradicate influenza as we have smallpox.)

You might then say: aha!  But I didn't mean to allow possible existences when I said "existence".  I meant to say this unique existence only or the state of existence instead of non-existence so all this talk of non-influenza is silly.  In that case, the problem is appling discriminating modifiers to a unique entity.  The unique me-how-I-am-right-now is the best, worst, fastest, slowest, silliest, utterly perfect, completely imperfect etc. etc. me-how-I-am-right-now.

Again, this is, upon reflection, just playing an unhelpful language game.  Yes, of course, if your set contains a single element, for any ordering O, that element is an upper bound for O.  Unless you are trying to be deliberately confusing, however, it is better to simply refrain from using language that implies multiple options when there is only one.  In particular, when one uses the word "perfect" and "existence" together, the implication is that possible existences may be considered.
This is a particularly sticky wicket because (a) we are delving into the philosophy of quantum mechanics (which is beset on all sides by those who wish to pervert it to their own ends) and (b) because we are confounding our understanding of the problem by confusing what we mean by "exists."

To make this question more meaningfully answerable I will address precisely what is meant by the idea that "nothing exists until we measure it" and then go on to provide an answer to this newly reformulated question.

Who can really know what Bohr was thinking when he made the statement that you quote in your question, but what I assume that he meant is not that the "particle" (as one example) does not exist before you "measure" it but rather that information about the particle's http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observable "observable" attributes (such as position, momentum, etc.) does not exist before that observable is measured. In other words, quantum theory claims that all the information that we have about a particle is contained in its http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wave_function wave function, which generally represents a http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superposition_principle linear superposition of possible states in which the particle might be found if a measurement is performed.

Therefore, one might ask, "What is going on before we make a measurement?"

Historically, there were three answers to this question:
(1) Something totally predictable is happening, but quantum mechanics doesn't know what it is because quantum mechanics is incomplete. (The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_variable_theory "Hidden Variable" Answer)
(2) Maybe something totally predictable is happening, but we'll never be able to know what, so don't even bother asking.
(3) Whatever is happening looks just like quantum mechanics and therefore doesn't affect the outcomes of our experiments, so who cares?

As it turns out, the first answer is basically dead because of http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bell%27s_theorem Bell's Theorem, which essentially says, "If the predictions of quantum mechanics are correct, then local hidden variable theories do not describe reality." In other words, no theory which allows us to know exactly what the particle is doing at every moment in time (and also preserves http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causality_%28physics%29 causality) can ever reproduce all of the predictions of quantum mechanics.

The second answer is demonstrably false because a theory can be constructed which tells us exactly what the particle is doing at every moment in time by violating causality. It is known as the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bohm_interpretation "pilot-wave theory." The theory exactly reproduces the predictions of quantum mechanics but is widely disregarded as a "toy theory" because it doesn't make any new predictions of its own.

As a result, answer #3 in conjunction with the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copenhagen_interpretation Copenhagen Interpretation tends to be the default position for most physicists. 

The take-home message is this: if you insist on things being "classical" (i.e. having definite observable values) to exist, then you must sacrifice local causality. On the other hand, if you are willing to accept the existence of things that don't have definite values for their observables (that is, accept the idea that an electron is its wave-function - whatever that means), then things certainly exist before they are measured. However, just as easily, you could say that "nothing exists" before a measurement and the act of measurement forces the system to "take a stand."

Any way you cut it, there is definitely one thing that you can't say: namely, that the system has some definite value but we just don't know what it is. Either it has a definite value and we know it, or it doesn't and we don't. You can have one or the other but not half-and-half.
Let Γ be the class of all impossible sentences, i.e., Γ = {φ : ¬◊φ}. Someone claiming that nothing it impossible is simply claiming that Γ = ∅. That commits them to the thesis that no formula is necessarily false, not that "the impossible is impossible" (whatever that means). The thesis is obviously false (i.e. Γ is nonempty), not because "impossible is impossible" is a tautology, but simply because there are sentences, such as (φ ∧ ¬φ) that are necessarily false (i.e. impossible) and thus belong to Γ. That's it.

It's always a good idea to model some interpretation of what's being said in a precise framework that will allow you to settle questions of truth without getting into contradictions and paradoxes. So for example, instead of formulas being impossible we could talk about actions beings unrealizable. The claim that nothing is impossible would then be that the set of realizable actions (for a given agent) is the entirety of the action space. In that framework, we would isolate an action that because of practical or theoretical reasons couldn't be realized (by the agent), contradicting the claim that she can do anything.
'Permissibility' is a poor term to use in the context of classical act utilitarianism, as this ranks actions as better or worse and would often only consider the best action as permissible. Parenthood likely does not devote resources to their optimal target, so is not the best choice in the sense, but is not bad when compared to the many other suboptimal actions people typically take.

Some other points are covered by http://www.effective-altruism.com/parenthood-and-effective-altruism/ this article: 


The costs of parenthood are comparable to other life choices generally deemed acceptable (see source)
Some find abstaining from parenthood so psychologically difficult that it's self-defeating
There are significant benefits

neither approach works because individuals have conflicting definitions of happiness. e.g. Plato's thumotic individual, which has been a major theme pertaining to conflict between individuals manifesting in some way or another in the work of every great political philosopher. i.e. People who make themselves happy at the expense of others. e.g. the tyranny of the strong over the weak or the domination of the intellectually superior over individuals of lesser intelligence. Some philosophers such as Socrates, Lao Tzu, the Buddha and the aristocratic ruling class of medieval Japan (Samurai) have advocated the abandonment of the pursuit of happiness for a life dedicated to the pursuit of virtue in the belief that virtue alone can sustain a person and that the attainment of virtue can be the most fulfilling experience a person can have.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racism Racism :


  consists of both prejudice and discrimination based in social perceptions of biological differences between peoples. It often takes the form of social actions, practices or beliefs, or political systems that consider different races [...]


where http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_%28classification_of_humans%29 race


  is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical, cultural, ethnic, genetic, geographical, historical, linguistic, religious, and/or social affiliation.


But - assuming that the concept of race is "useful" - why we expect that the "racist" belongs to some race ?
To break this down a bit, consider that "having objective knowledge" can be construed in two ways. (1) You can "have objective knowledge" in a limited sense in which you are simply correct in asserting some statement, without knowledge of whether such statement is in fact true or false. I think this must be possible in a sort of "infinite monkeys on typewriters" type of way: given an infinite set of statements, at least one must be objectively true, therefore objective knowledge is possible. But what I think you are really asking is (2) can we know that we have objective knowledge? That is more problematic. This was Descartes' quest in Discourse on the Method: is there some basic proposition that we can definitively say is true or false?

This question cannot really be answered because answering it involves oneself in the question itself. If we say, "no it's not possible," then we have set that proposition up as objective truth and thereby contradicted ourselves.

I think it would be useful to consider what your standard of proof is. Objective knowledge in mathematics is more strictly defined than it is in the empirical sciences, which is more strictly defined than law, which is more strictly defined than history.

To address your point about agentive activity: it does not really matter so long as the resultant proposition remains true. That is, as long as you can account for the effects of agentive activity, then you can still appreciate it objectively. Or perhaps it has no effect at all -- you seem to have assumed that it always does. It is true that since we are finite, instantiated beings, we always posses a point of view or vantage point; yet it does not follow that there aren't certain vantage points from which an objective assessment can be had.
I haven't seen this anywhere, but I would raise the specter of laws of nature with causal powers as 'queer' entities. We know that laws like F = ma are entirely descriptive; objects do not obey F = ma [to various approximations] because of F = ma. A compelling reason to believe this is that in certain regimes, F = ma is a very bad approximation: high gravity and relativistic speeds. Therefore, F = ma has no causal power; the causal power relies somewhere else. (I will ignore the http://www.sfu.ca/~swartz/physical-law/regularity_theory.htm Regularity Theory on the basis of Rom Harré's http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/063116040X Causal Powers: Theory of Natural Necessity.)

What is the nature of these causally potent laws of nature? They dictate how [physical] things must be and how they must change. But they don't lie in the things, as if they're another kind of 'thing-hood'. Indeed, they appear to be an entirely different ontological category than physical things. These laws of nature have to be kind of like God: timeless and omnipresent. Edward Feser http://edwardfeser.blogspot.com/2014/07/carroll-on-laws-and-causation.html makes this point:


  First, when scientists like Carroll confidently proclaim that we can explain such-and-such in terms of the laws of physics rather than God, what they are saying, without realizing it, is: “The explanation isn’t God, it’s rather the laws of physics, where ‘law of physics’ originally meant ‘a decree of God’ and where I don’t have any worked-out alternative account of what it means.”  Hence the “alternative” explanation, when unpacked, is really either a tacit appeal to God or a non-explanation.  In short, either it isn’t alternative, or it’s not an explanation.  The utter cluelessness of this stock naturalistic “alternative explanation” would make of it an object of ridicule if it were not so routinely and confidently put forward by otherwise highly intelligent, educated, and widely esteemed people.


So, unless a non-God-like formulation of the laws of nature can be provided†, where these causally potent laws aren't very, very different from the normal stuff of physicalism (or philosophical naturalism, I think), the defender of the queerness argument is engaged in special-pleading by refusing to let moral laws be 'queer', while giving the 'queerness' of natural laws a pass.

† There is much debate and uncertainty about what 'laws of nature' really are; see for example Evan Fales' http://rads.stackoverflow.com/amzn/click/0415875900 Divine Intervention: Metaphysical and Epistemological Puzzles.
There is a conflation between two different senses of the word 'rational' going on here. To be a rational being in a Kantian sense is to a being capable of thought. To be a rational being in the common sense of the word is be a being who is presently thinking things through clearly. Kant had no delusions that rational beings always think things through clearly. 

Hence, it is quite possible for a rational being in the Kantian sense to be irrational in the common sense. Consequently, a drug addict is still a rational being for Kant even though such person is not behaving in a fashion that most of us would consider to be rational.
That's an excellent question and I don't know of any article or other reference about it. AFAIK, there should be such two values, although in the end it all hinges on what you call a value and whether you think that the use of implications is appropriate in this context. Why should there be such pairs of values? 

Take any common variety of goodness like e.g. medical goodness or hedonic goodness, and a statement like (1) that can be read in that way:

(1) This apple is good.

Then it seems that we should be able to give explanations like (1) means

(2) This apple is healthy for you right now.

or

(3) This apple gives me pleasure right now.

But this, it seems, essentially means that something is good in the medical sense of 'good' if and only if it is healthy to you, and that something is good in the hedonic sense of 'good' if and only if it gives you pleasure. So here you have your biconditionals.

However, there are numerous problems with this view. One of them is that one could argue that it confuses synonymy with explication. Logical positvists like Carnap and Ayer were careful to keep the two apart and not to conflate explication with statements of synonmy. Perhaps the biconditional (in the sense of "material implication in both directions") is not the right way to think about problems of value equivalence. Still, any intuitively understandable variety of goodness should have a corresponding explanation that can (to some extent) be substituted for it. 

Another problem is whether you are willing to call different meanings of "good" values at all - "good" seems to be a very special case. Perhaps it always combines different (real, underlying) values as a sort of shortcut.
A paradigmatic protagonist of considering the rewards is http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Groundwork_of_the_Metaphysic_of_Morals Kant. But to him it does not matter if you are rewarded, but if you are doing something because of the reward. Only if you do it without being motivated by the reward at all, it is a good action. That is basically the reason why with Kant there is no promise that you will actually go to heaven if you do good. You only are entiteld to hope for it.

In http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism utilitarism on the other hand the basic idea is that utility is maximised. Usually the total sum of utility is considered. So if you are rewarded for your good work, this adds to the total sum of happiness generated by your actions. If you are a politician and increase the happiness of millions of people, your contribution will not be a large portion of the total happiness, but if anything it will never reduce the morality of your actions.
There's more than one theory that goes by the name divine command theory. I haven't seen the distinction drawn quite this way in the literature but there's an ontological divine command theory (hereafter DCT) that we can associate with the medieval idea of voluntarism (e.g., Ockham and following) and there's an epistemological DCT that has been offered recently by Robert Merrihew Adams and C. Stephen Evans. It might be best to think of these things as kind of a sequence.

On ontological DCT, something is right or wrong because and only because God has declared it so.  Most readers take this position to be absurd or at least somewhat troubling, because it leads to or at least seems to lead to worlds where God says killing people is not only not wrong but is mandatory. Thus, to know morality is to know what God is saying which is arbitrary and do what he says.

Epistemological DCT shifts the purpose of divine commands relative to human subjects. For epistemological versions of DCT, what happens is that we know right and wrong through God's commands. In other words, if God command something we know it is right; if God commands against it, we know it is wrong. But what we don't know directly from that is why God commands this or better-worded what about the content might make it so that God commands it and thereby makes it moral or immoral for us.

It turns out most versions of DCT on offer in the philosophical literature are closer in character to the latter than to the former. For these, it could be that God has reasoned that something is immoral on any of a number of bases (Kantian, utilitarian) or that God designed the order of the world to be rational in such a way that some things fit or don't fit.

To wit, when speaking of DCT, we need to be careful to think about whether we are describing a theory wherein our moral knowledge hinges on God's commands or moral reality hinges on God's commands. The latter faces a much larger set of objections than the former. Moreover, both theories could be partial explanations of morality. e.g., the former can include God's commands as a source of moral knowledge rather than the source. Or the metaphysical version can say some rules are arbitrary without declaring all rules arbitrary.

Why all of this legwork? Partially, because the full metaphysical variant has several severe issues (such as murder world above), but the picture in which at least some of morality derives from divine commands seems to be endemic to monotheistic religions.
This is described in the last chapter of the Critique of Pure Reason, 'The History of Pure Reason'.

He there once again restates that (and why) all other conceivings of God before him had to be either sceptic or dogmatic, a common theme all over the last part.

EDIT:

I correct myself: In A631|B659-A642|670 he criticizes all theology out of speculative principles of reason and in effect explains why every determinination of God with the help of experience/intuition must fail (especially A636-8|B664-6). Your example isn't explicitely adressed, but can be subsumed under his criticism as I understand it.
Agreeing with virmaior's comment that this falls under "fallacy of division". A possible counterexample is Chess, where simple rules, multiplied with each other, and multiplied over multiple possible future moves, results in great complexity.
By "honours" Aristotle may mean "rewards". Because he contrasts "honours" with "punishments":


  It is perhaps a necessary task for those who are investigating the nature of Virtue to draw out the distinction between what is voluntary and what involuntary; and it is certainly useful for legislators, with respect to the assigning of honours and punishments. (Ethics Bk III Ch I)


If so, then "small honours" means "small rewards".
My apologies for stating the obvious, but as we all know, definitions are, at some level, arbitrary. We can define morality in any way we choose, but we do have some sort of understanding among other people, allowing for 'useful' and 'useless' definitions.

That being said, harm is a label that we place on a very specific set of perceived stimuli. Namely, stimuli that induce an undesirable effect within our minds (or, more Scientifically, brains). It can surely be tailored more, because activities like exercise create short-term undesirable effects like tiredness or exhaustion, but for the sake of argument, we will leave it at that. Harm can be determined with epistemic objectivity by several ways, but the two stand stand out to me are:


Attaching electrodes and various brain measuring heuristics tools to see its reactions.
A conscious agent truthfully conveying incorrigible perceptions of harm.


Either way, it would be epistemically objective that an agent is feeling harmed, though it tells us nothing of what is harming them, or even if they are actually being harmed.
Since this is multiple choice, I'll choose (b) and (c), with misgivings.

It is not hard to locate paradigms of what is meant by "rationality." At the etymological and stripped-down, Hobbesian level, rationality is a coherent, reliable system of input-output calculations. The model for Hobbes and many others was Euclid's axiomized geometry. It is "in the eye of the beholder" in the sense that the correlating axioms, assumptions, applications, and social contexts of such systems will vary.

The problems in arriving at one, "unified account of rationality" are numerous, famous, and fraught, constituting a virtual history of philosophy.

First, there is the problem of the axioms, as the case of Euclid's      fifth postulate famously illustrates. Axioms must ultimately be         grounded in consensus and intuitions, which are unreliable leaps of     faith, historically variable, and always susceptible to skeptical       demolition, as Berkeley, Hume, and others demonstrated. And one can     always reason from "biblical axioms" or "racialist axioms" and be    perfectly rational, in the eyes of some beholders. 

Second, the reliable symbolic systems of mathematics and logic must      be translated into value-laden, oral languages, where all    sorts of    "bewitchments" await. This exorcising task inspired the  logical       atomism of Frege, Russell, Wittgenstein, and others, all  of whom       conceded defeat, some of whom also conceded that the    "irrational,"    evolving plasticity of language was perhaps just as well.

Third, any rational system that wants to advance beyond tautology    must attach itself to the slippery contingencies of experience. Carnap and   others    attempted to stick manipulable symbols to sense data. Kant    demonstrated how the analytical concepts of reason could produce       synthetic conclusions about experience, but only at the sad cost of      truncating reason and possible knowledge.

Fourth, all rational systems that extend their domains must live in    doubt of their own internal coherence. Such doubts were   put to rest    by Godel's mapping of Russell and Whitehead's great   attempt at a    "universal account of rationality."  No rational    system, even    cleansed to consistent symbols, could ever "prove    itself" or ensure    it own completion and consistency. Game over.

So, even apart from vague, colloquial uses of the term "rationality," we are a left with a historical scrap heap of "expert-built" rational systems, which remain perfectly useful, but are unlikely to be unified into a single account to everyone's satisfaction. 

But people never give up. Set theory is said by some to be the most fundamental, unified account of various rational systems, though I wouldn't know. Efforts are underway to employ a Quinean naturalized epistemology linking set theory with perception-based "cell assemblies" theoretically accessible to neural-cognitive tracking. Game reboot.           
Let me cite a relevant passage from the Daily Press (by James A. Dellavalle):


  In spite of the similarity in their genetic makeup scientists are
  still at a loss to explain the rather significant differences between
  humans and chimps. These differences include physical characteristics
  such as our large brain and bipedalism, but more importantly the
  ability to think abstractly in terms of concepts, the use of symbols,
  highly developed language, free will and self-consciousness. It is
  self-consciousness which gives rise to questions ranging from "Who am
  I?" and "Where did I come from?" to "Is there a God" and "Is there
  life after death?"
  
  Additionally, while suggesting that man descended from apes, Charles
  Darwin himself was at a loss to explain the origin of the "moral
  sense" that truly distinguishes man from other animals. Of course,
  scientists will continue to try to account for these differences in
  purely materialistic terms. For instance, they will try to explain
  them as arising from the remaining 4 percent of genetic material, or
  come up with the "God gene" or the "God center" of the brain.


And according to Prof. Uta Frith from University College (London), our varied mental and social lives make us humans fundamentally different from other species. In particular, our self-consciousness is different from the self-awareness exhibited by great apes - it occurred only in human evolution about 100,000 years ago.
A proposition is objective if its truth value is independent of the person uttering it. A fact is objective in the same way. 

For morality to be objective, moral propositions such as "Killing is bad","Stealing is bad", etc... need to be true independently of the person who is stating them. 

Moral statements are basically statements of value. Some value statements are clearly subjective: "Tabasco flavored ice cream tastes good" can be true for me, but false for you.

The challenge for finding an objective morality (independent of God) is to somehow demonstrate that a moral statement like "Helping others is good" or "Raping is bad" is true independently of the observer or subject of the statement. 

There are ways to do this without resorting to God. One example is Kant, with his famous https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Categorical_imperative categorical imperatives. His approach to making morality objective rests on idea of whether a course of action can be applied in any situation whatsoever. If so then, it is true in all cases, and it is (objectively) moral. 

Another approach is https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism utilitarianism, where instead of trying to analyze the act itself, you measure the outcome: Which course of action leads to the greatest good for the greatest number of people? The objectivity for utilitarians comes from the statistical nature of the way goodness is assessed. Although the outcome of the act is subjective for each person, the overall truth of the statement depends on summing the value of the outcome for all people, and becomes objective that way.  

In practice, both Kantian and utilitarian ethics have their challenges, but they are good starting points for an objective morality independent of God (or Gods). 
According to modern physics, all of the universe is quantum mechanical (or quantum theoretic rather), but macroscopic universe, observable or not, is largely classical. That observer's consciousness collapses the wave function is a more poetic version of the dated view of the Copenhagen interpretation advanced by Heisenberg and Wigner in 1950s. The work on decoherence in 1990s showed that observers are not unique in this respect, their role is the same as that played by the environment in their absence. It is a bit anticlimactic, but consciousness plays no special role in limiting macroscopic effects of quantum behavior, if it plays any role at all:"Continuous monitoring enforces environment – induced superselection... Schrodinger cats, Wigner's friends, and, generally, all of the systems which are in principle quantum but sufficiently macroscopic will be forced to behave in accord with classical mechanics as a result of the environment - induced superselection".

http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/9802054 Zurek gives a striking example of what would have happened to the Solar system  if observers were indeed the ones collapsing the wave function:"According to the Schrodinger equation, less than a billion years after its formation the behavior of the solar system should be flagrantly non-classical, with the quantum states of celestial bodies spread over dimensions comparable with the sizes of their orbits, and with the planetary dynamics no longer in accord with the laws of Newton!" The reason is similar to the Schrodinger cat's predicament of subsisting in a superposition of dead and alive states until an observer opens the box. But as Zurek points out "in the case of the cat it was possible to entertain the notion that the (admittedly preposterous) final superposition of dead and alive cat could be avoided if the process of measurement was properly understood. This “way out” is no longer available in the case of celestial bodies we are discussing".

What plays the observer's role in the case of the Solar system is the interplanetary gas, it is constantly "monitoring" its state and the correlations this introduces quickly destroy quantum superpositions of coherent states turning them into decohered classical states:"for a planet of the size of Jupiter a chaotic instability on the four million year timescale and the consequent delocalization would be easily halted even by a very rarefied medium (0.1 atoms/cm3, comparable to the density of interplanetary gas in the vicinity of massive outer planets)". 
You are describing the weakness of Hume's account that Kant pointed out. Hume held that impressions associate, or appear to do so, just in virtue of their occurence, i.e. the stream of impressions acts by constant lumping together of properties. Under this passive receptivity picture Hume does not indeed need a self to play any active role. However, activities of the mind are far too complex to be accounted for by Hume's associationism, if universal terms are to be had at all they must come from elsewhere. As http://philpapers.org/rec/PIPKOE Pippin puts it in Kant on Empirical Concepts:"Contrary to Hume, it is not the case that impressions just by their occurrence generate a feeling of associability. Perhaps Kant’s most decisive objection to Hume is his claim that it is the mind which must actively order and associate them, and this according to acquired rules".

Whether we agree with Kant that the rules and universals come from the mind itself, or hold like Aristotle that they are somehow "contained" in the transcendent the hard question remains, how are they acquired? It is one thing to dismiss Hume's associationism as too naive, it is quite another to give a plausible account of how exactly mind extracts these regularities from the manifold of impressions. Saying that an "active agent" or "self" does it is as vacuous as vacuous can be. That simply creates the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homunculus_argument homunculus, the little man in the mind, and moves the problem on to the homunculus. Both Hume and Kant realized that, and tried to give a non-homunculus account, but Hume's does not measure up, and as Pippin summarizes:
"Kant did indeed attempt to break quite radically from the Cartesian picture of knowledge as a kind of clarity or ‘glow’ of representations, or as an immediate grasp of some content, in favor of a thoroughly discursive picture of conceptual activity... However, I am also arguing that, just to the extent that Kant was successful... he raises what will become the problem for such an account, the ‘ground’ for this activity, a problem which he does not seem to be able to solve within the limits of his methodology".

We do not have an independent account of what "self" is and how it does what it does even today. That some "self" is necessary for activities of the mind is true enough, but that simply rephrases that mind is active, i.e. places a label on the unknown.
Utilitarianism does not require altruism in a situation of complete lack of faith in providence.  If anyone's fortunes may immediately reverse at any moment, and they may then become the least privileged members of society, or if they may be elevated spontaneously into a position of rulership, the statistically best position is for them is for the system as a whole to maximize average benefit.  (Or at least to draw maximum and minimum benefit close together, which is just the median-vs-mean alternative formulation of the same position.)

Of course, none of us think this way.  We have a certain level of tribal faith and faith in social stability that leads us to assume our positions in society are secure and will not change very much unless we actively do something that changes them.  But this lack of tribalism and faith in providence is not altruism.  It does not imply any real concern for others, just defense against extreme fates.

"There but for the grace of  go I." is not really an altruistic motive, taken literally.  It is easiest for us to enter into this position from individual empathy.  But that empathy is not any better reason to take it seriously than simple statistics unless you have a counterbalancing faith in overall social stability.

You can claim that social stability is an observed trend, and that presuming it is just logic.  But that is because our current systems of ethics and government are not utilitarian -- they are skewed to the benefit of the privileged and have built that stability into their value system.
The form of constructive dilemma is:


A or B
A -> C
B -> D
Ergo C or D


or alternately if C and D are the same:


A or B
A -> C
B -> C
Ergo C


(omitting the move form C or C to C).

The example you have above:

A = you make your career your top priority
C = your family life will suffer
B = you make your family you top priority
D = your career will suffer.

I get the following premises:


A -> C
B -> D
C or D
Therefore A or B


This is not a constructive dilemma because 3 and 4 are reversed. If you check with a truth table you will find it does not follow (specifically A and B can both be false, and either C or D true, and then all premises would be true but the conclusion false). 

Stated in another way, this is invalid for the same reason affirming the consequent is invalid.
Heidegger uses the word Life (Leben) all over the place (it appears at least once in every volume of the GA), as do most of us, but the word itself doesn't appear to have a special place in his terminology. In places he refers to other philosophers' use of the word (Aristotle, Hegel). He looks at some related etymology; e.g., Er-Leben.
Knowledge representation is a model of a certain domain of the real world. 

These models are composed from objecttypes (entity, surrogate) and the relations between objecttypes. 

Such models are named "ontologies" and can be formalized as "Entity-relationship-models". 

Ontologies are used e.g., in business-administration to model a certain business domain. In sales we have entities like customer, order, product and relationsships between the entities customer and order like customer places an order, and between order and product like an order comprises several products. These ontologies are the prerequisites for database design.
Absolutely not. Heidegger's "essence of Dasein" is really a misnomer to make a point, by stating that http://www.visual-memory.co.uk/b_resources/b_and_t_glossary.html Dasein's essence is existence he upends the traditional use of "essence" as form, idea, the opposite of existence. Heidegger questioned that essences can be the kinds of universal invariants that Husserl wanted them to be, and therefore that his http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Eidetic_reduction "eidetic reduction" that supposedly extracts them by discarding existential and interpretive backdrops can ever succeed.

Husserl, on the other hand, uses essences (a.k.a. ideas, eidoses, forms, etc.) in a much more traditional sense that goes back to Plato's, or perhaps more Aristotle's, forms, invariances of becoming. Except that unlike Aristotle and Plato Husserl is not a realist, he suspends judgements about existence, so the forms are viewed not as pre-existing out there, but as constituted in intentional acts, in which we are directed at them. A specific feature of Husserlian conception is that not only universals like "truth" and "material thing" have essences, but also what Aristotle called abstract particulars, like "this circle" and, this is Husserl's innovation, even empirical particulars like "this house" and "this tree" have them. 

Husserl's argument for extending the notion of essence this way was that the structure of the intentional acts in which essences are constituted is uniform, so if they feature in reflective acts of abstraction/generalization there has to be an analog of them in perceptive acts as well. Otherwise, we would not be able to recall or think of the same concrete tree at different times. Closely related to essences is also specifically Husserlian notion of "noema", the "content" of an essence as it appears in an intentional act upon the http://www.iep.utm.edu/phen-red phenomenological reduction (suspension of beliefs).

Generally, Husserl is much better at describing what the essences are not than what exactly they are. They are not spatio-temporal, yet they accompany and reveal themselves through perceptual objects that manifest in space and time, they are not sense data or mental constructs, but neither are they Plato's reified idealities. See more in https://www.academia.edu/2038779/The_Ontological_Status_of_Essences_in_Husserl_s_Thought Zhok's Ontological Status of Essences in Husserl's Thought, a more elementary source is https://stacks.stanford.edu/file/druid:wv688pc2789/wv688pc2789.pdf Follesdal's short Introduction to Phenomenology.
The True One does not "pop up" suddenly; it is present from the start [first page, see page 55 of Engl.transl.]:


  "The True One exists necessarily, and therefore beings exist." 


Then, after a long examination, the True One is mentioned again [page 104]:


  "Consequently, the True One has no genus whatsoever. We have already stated that what has a genus is not eternal, and that the eternal has no genus. Consequently the True One is eternal, and in no way whatsoever ever becomes multiple; and the One should not be spoken of in relation to something other than itself." 


See http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/plotinus/#2 Plotinus and the One:


  The One is the absolutely simple first principle of all. It is both ‘self-caused’ and the cause of being for everything else in the universe.


and compare with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demiurge Demiurge: "In the Platonic, Neopythagorean, Middle Platonic, and Neoplatonic schools of philosophy, the demiurge is an artisan-like figure responsible for the fashioning and maintenance of the physical universe. Although a fashioner, the demiurge is not necessarily the same as the creator figure in the familiar monotheistic sense." 

Thus, al Kindi, as well as Plotinus, is searching for a proof of the existence not of "a creator" whatsoever, but of the True One.
In what sense:


  distinct points are "different" points of the Absolute Space ?


The argument used by Leibniz to “confute the fancy” of those who take space to exist independently of spatially related things, is the following:


  if space was an absolute being, something would happen for which it would be impossible to give a sufficient reason – which is against my axiom [the Principle of Sufficient Reason]. And I prove it thus: Space is something
  absolutely uniform, and without the things placed in it, one point of space absolutely does not differ in any respect whatsoever from another point of space. Now from this it follows (supposing space to be something in itself, besides the order of bodies among themselves) that it is impossible there should be a reason why God, preserving the same situation of bodies among themselves, should have placed them in space after one certain particular manner and not otherwise.


Physical things are located by way of "measuring" them (through coordinates) against some reference frame.

If we assume the existence of points in the absolute space, they have no intrinsic properties that can differentiate them from one another: we cannot "measure" them against the Absolute Space because they are the absolute space (we cannot measure our height comparing us with ourself...).

Thus, distinct "real" points cannot be discerned [here he use the priciple of Identity of Indiscernibles] and all the purported distinct points must collapse into a sort of "singualrity".
Not only humans die. Other animals die too. 

From the perspective of evolution dying of old animals gives way to a new generation, better adapted to a changing environment.

I do not recognize a higher meaning of life. Nature exists billions of years without animals. Nevertheless from the perspective of the single human individuum: We are able to choose a meaning for our own life. And if we are fortunate, then we succeed in doing so.  
Kant on absolute value

First, there is but one absolute value:


  These [i.e., persons, defined as ends in themselves] are not merely subjective ends whose existence as effect of
  our action has a worth for us; but rather objective ends, i.e., things whose
  existence in itself is an end, and specifically an end such that no other end can
  be set in place of it, to which it should do service merely as means, because
  without this nothing at all of absolute worth would be encountered anywhere; but if all worth were conditioned, hence contingent, then for reason
  no supreme practical principle could anywhere be encountered. (Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals, Ak. 4:428, Cambridge p. 48, bolded by me)


He clearly states that without 'things whose existence in itself is an end' there would be 'nothing at all of absolute worth'. The carriers of this absolute worth are rational beings, as clarified once more later on:


  Rational nature exists as end in itself. The human being necessarily represents his own existence in this way;... (Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals, Ak. 4:429, Cambridge p. 48)


Now one aspect of your question, as I understand it, is how this worth is bound to the existence of the rational being at hand, i.e. what happens if the rational being seizes to exist in a relevant sense (i.e. death) and if this does in fact change something.

I will have to admit: I only have a partial answer on that one.

Kant on the existence of rational beings and death

Here, we have to leave the Groundwork and have a look into the Critique of Practical Reason, the fundamental book on Kant's practical philosophy. In the Dialectics, Kant goes into some detail how the existence of (finite) rational beings has to be thought. 

I'm not happy with the translation, but it is the only one I have at hand by now. I will therefore quote the key part and paraphrase other parts of the argument afterwards:


  The full commensurability of the will to the moral law, however, is holiness, a perfection, 
  of which no rational being of the sense world is capable in any time point of his existence. But since it is nonetheless required as necessarily practical, it can be encountered only in 
  a progression going infinitely to that full commensurability. And it is necessary, according 
  to principles of pure practical reason, to assume such a practical advancement as the real 
  object of our will. But this infinite progression is possible only under the presupposition of an existence and 
  personality of the same rational being, continuing into infinitely (which one terms the 
  ‘immortality of the soul’). (Critique of Practical Reason, Ak. 5:122, Translated by Philip McPherson Rudisill
  Posted September 18, 2012, bolded by me)


But this is only a 'postulate', i.e. a 'theoretical sentence', and does not in the least say anything about the theoretical reality of this immortality. But as we, in acting morally, have to presuppose this postulate and act accordingly (according to Kant), it gains practical reality.

Conclusion

Within Kant's own framework, the rational being does not seize to exist with death if it comes to practical concerns. This does not mean that it 'really' continues to exist (we cannot know for sure), but that we have to act as if it were (we have to presuppose it).

The absolute worth and dignity of rational beings, which is bound to their existence as end-setting beings, does therefore not seize either. Because dignity/absolute worth is a practical category, i.e. when talking about value we already are talking about what I called 'practical concerns'. Dignity is therefore absolute (i.e. not to be relativised) as well as infinite (i.e. in time). It has nothing to do with things-in-themselves, though.

Constraint

Well, this is valid at least for the critical Kant. There are some not very well researched shifts within his Opum postumum that arguably would make another answer possible, but I am not (yet) deep enough into it to build an answer on this.
Not exactly. Peirce himself considered it a distillation of "common sense", but he offered it as an alternative to the then dominant http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/descartes-epistemology/#2.1 Cartesian foundationalism. Many disputed the pragmatic maxim, and its supporters concede that while it is "morally right" in the form given by Peirce it is difficult to interpret. 

The reason for disputing the maxim is that according to many semantic theories meanings have "content" or "intension", which is irreducible to practical consequences. For instance, your idea of red, or love, or beauty might have overtones that are not and can not be expressed or communicated to others. Then your meaning of those terms is irreducible to Peirce's "practical bearings". There is long tradition of criticizing such "private" and/or "intrinsic" meanings by Frege, Wittgenstein, Quine, Sellars, etc., but they also have many supporters, e.g. Husserl, Searle, possibly Fodor, see e.g. https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/33865/do-wittgenstein-and-quine-give-the-same-criticisms-of-semantics/33872#33872 Do Wittgenstein and Quine give the same criticisms of semantics? and https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/34219/what-is-the-significance-of-wittgensteins-discussion-of-sensations-before-the-p/34221#34221 What is the role of sensations in Wittgenstein's private language argument?

The reason the maxim is hard to interpret is that, as pointed out already by early critics, "effects that might conceivably have practical bearings" are not individually entailed by meaning of anything in particular, lots of things participate in producing those effects collectively. To decide what is or is not an effect of a particular "object of our conception" we need some a priori way to decide what does or does not count as its effects. If we have such a way then we already understand its "meaning", or "practical bearings", anyway, and the maxim is circular, if not, it can not be applied to begin with, hence apparently meaningless.

To vindicate Peirce's maxim "morally" Quine developed his holistic theory of translation, elaborated into http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/davidson/#Holism semantics by his student Davidson. Here is from Quine's http://joelvelasco.net/teaching/3330/Quine-Epistemology-Naturalized.pdf Epistemology Naturalized:


  "Sometimes also an experience implied by a theory fails to come off; and then, ideally, we declare the theory false. But the failure falsifies only a block of theory as a whole, a conjunction of many  statements... The component statements simply do not have empirical meanings, by Peirce's standard; but a sufficiently inclusive portion of theory does... We might better speak in such a case not of translation but simply of observational evidence for theories; and we may, following Peirce, still fairly call this the empirical meaning of the theories...
  
  "The indeterminacy of translation of theoretical sentences is 
  a natural conclusion. And most sentences, apart from observation sentences, are theoretical. This conclusion, conversely, once it is embraced, seals the fate of any general notion of propositional meaning or, for that matter, state of affairs".

The best place to understand business integrity or the moral duty of corporations to the society is thorough analyzing the argument offered by  Milton Friedman, a Nobel prize winning American economist, in an article piece published in The New York Times Magazine in 1970, a must-read for any student of business ethics.

The business world of 1960's in the US experienced the existential angst, the outcome of which was the movement of the corporate social responsibility (CSR). Corporations believed that they should be better selves in their conduct of doing businesses: e.g., contribution to social programs,  procurement of natural resources in a politically and environmentally right way, and engagement in fair trade practices.      

Friedman however argued that there is no such thing as CSR, and the only responsibility of a corporation is to make money (indeed, to maximize profits) within the boundary of the law. I dissect his argument as follows.

Assumptions:


A corporation is not a person; it is an artificial entity.
Only a person can have a moral duty.
If there is a duty to CSR, the duty  must lie in the executive of the corporation, the one with the real power.
Executives are mere agents of the owners of the corporation,i.e., the stockholders. 
Being agents, executives have the moral duty to their principals, the stockholders. 
The executive’s duty to stockholders is the maximization of profits. 
An executive acting upon her perceived CSR must be acting against the interest of the stockholders. That is, her duty to CSR is inconsistent with her duty to the principal.
Her duty to her principal clearly exists.
Thus, her duty to CSR cannot exist.


Conclusion: 

From 9 and 3, there is no duty to CSR.

Philosophers of business ethics believe that Friedman's argument is unsound, and have been trying to show that some of his assumptions are wrong.  
There's a lot of overlap between the domains of moral philosophy and political philosophy. Consequently, there's not much historical differentiation -- Kant, Mill, and Aristotle both engage in political and moral philosophy.

The distinctions are in terms of the main questions that concern contemporary philosophers in each field of philosophy.

Moral philosophers are concerned with questions of right and wrong or questions of virtue. This can often be done without respect to the political structures that exist or seeing these only as a backdrop. 

One common type of scenario in contemporary analytic moral philosophy is the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem trolley problem which involves whether to divert a trolley from killing more people to killing less people, etc. No one I'm familiar with asks whether you're living in North Korea, China, or France to figure out which would be moral. Some moral philosophers approach problems from the perspective of some moral framework or with reference to a historical philosopher like Kant. Others look directly at moral intuitions by using surveys.

Separately, some moral philosophers look at the emotions. For instance, we can see this in the work of Martha Nussbaum or by looking at Mencius' four moral roots (See http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/emotion/#10 http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/emotion/#10).

Conversely, political philosophers look at questions about how the state should be organized. This strain historically begins in Plato (Republic, Laws) and Aristotle (Politics and one part of Nicomachean Ethics). It keeps happening in Hobbes (Leviathan), Locke (Letters concerning Toleration, Two Treatises on Government), Rousseau (The Social Contract), Kant (Perpetual Peace, Religion), Hegel (Philosophy of Right, Natural Law, Hegel's System of Ethical Life) - just to name a few works.

To highlight the distinctions a bit more clearly, political philosophy is more apt to consider right/wrong action in terms of crime than morality (though not exclusively) whereas moral philosophy does not need to concern itself (in general) with whether something wrong is criminal.

A second aspect that has arisen more recently for political philosophy is problems of collective action and collective responsibility. Again, the distinction is not going to be absolute but when you shift to how things work in groups you're generally moving into political philosophy rather than moral philosophy.

To return to your specific phrasing,


  Is political philosophy an application of moral philosophy to the political structure of society?


I would say no -- or at least no always. In general, there's a theory of how society should be organized that doesn't arise directly from moral principles. For instance, in Aristotle's account, the virtues do not scale up to create an ideal society. Instead, individuals are seen as part of larger organic wholes to which they belong (thus Aristotle declares that the polis precedes the individual and the family). Similarly, Mencius's political philosophy is built on an idea of society that is organic rather than on the individual.

There are of course views of society like social contract theories or Kant's Kingdom of Ends where there's deep integration between the idea of morality and political organization. For social contract theorists, an (imagined or hypotheszied) state of nature is overcome and transformed into a political realm where morality can also exist. For Kant, political society is society that contains rational beings who act in accordance with the categorical imperative and achieve harmony.

Maybe to sum all of this up, moral and political philosophy often differ in focus rather than content. A moral philosopher might look at the problem of drug addiction from the perspective of the incontinent will whereas a political philosophy might look at the problems with social organization that permit or deny the addict access to drugs and whether/what measures are acceptable to restrict this.
Right and Wrong are cultural universals.  One of the characteristics of a cultural universal is that everybody on the planet agrees that there are concepts of "right" and "wrong," but they disagree on what is right and what is wrong.

Accordingly, there is no one answer to your question, other than to point out that your assertions, "The only reason things are considered wrong is because they harm someone or something right? So if an action doesn't harm anyone or anything can it be considered wrong?" are only true within ethical systems where they are true.  There are plenty of ethical systems where they are false.

Unfortunately, as Jobermark pointed out, this is really the fundamental question behind the entire philosophical discipline known as "ethics."  To merely list all of the ethical frameworks would be beyond the scope of an answer such as this, much less providing a critique of each one.  My recommendation would be to engage in your own study of ethics, on your own time.  My personal approach would be to start from the Wikipedia article on the topic, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethics Ethics, and work from there, but you can use any study method which suits your style.
From a utilitarian standpoint lying is not wrong in and of itself. It can be justified as morally acceptable if the greatest good for the greatest number of people produced by promulgating an untruthful statement outweighs the bad (i.e. living in a society where information is unreliable).

It is a difficult argument, from the utilitarian standpoint, for a person contemplating lying on a CV to justify that his or her obtaining a job is a greater overall good than someone else obtaining the position. In fact, someone arguing the counterpoint that the liar would most likely do more harm in the position than the truthful person would have a much stronger utilitarian argument.

Actually any arguments based on the good of one (especially oneself) are very easy to argue against in a utilitarian framework.
Under Marxism, outdated class structures were supposed to be overthrown with force (revolution) instead of being replaced through patient modification. So, I believe strike action is an essential element of Marxism. But why large scale strike action always if it is not necessary?

Would this question arise if the rulers were Marxists?  Would it be an essential element then?

Since Marxism is based on science up to a certain extent, I believe, large scale strike action is not its essential element.  

If scientific, a mission can be accomplished even by a clever coup.  In such case, there is no need of a large scale strike action.  But I think Marxism will support large scale strike action in case of emergency.

To occur something significant and unforeseen, a clever coup is enough.

Marx said the results of the strikes were irrelevant and it was the nature of the protest that was important.  He believed that through strikes and other class protests, workers won a moral and political victory.  That means he gave importance to morality and the nature of strike. 

See: http://homepages.gac.edu/~kranking/DigitalHistory/HIS321/HIS_321/Karl_Marx.html# Karl Marx’s View of Strikes
absolutely.

This answer has an objective purpose.

It exists to answer the question you asked. 

The same can be said of a large number of artifacts (here meaning things that people make). Some objects will have compound objective purposes.

E.g., the chair exist so that someone can sit in it. (that's a type of reason). But it also exists because the chair maker made it to make money (a different type of reason).

Arguably this answer fulfills multiple and complex purposes as well. I answer it because I enjoy answering questions. I answer them on SE because SE has a good system where the answers are free to see. I enjoy answering questions about philosophy, because I have 4 degrees in it. I enjoy answering this question because I think a good deal about related issues in Hegel and Aristotle.

A harder variant on your question would be, can something exist which has only one purpose for its existence? Here, many artifacts will have trouble qualifying since they fulfill multiple purposes. And to get a definitive answer to this question is going to be difficult and somewhat opinion-based, because (a) atheists are going to reject that anything exists for a reason God gave it, (b) we can debate whether someone gave something a singular purpose or always has multiple purposes (see for instance the debate about whether one can have a pure maxim of the will -- Marcia Baron, Kantian Ethics Almost without Apology and Hegel's various critiques of Kant),  (c) whether we accept teleology or natural kinds, and (d) whether we grant evolutionary purposes as objective purposes (why does the flying squirrel have membranes? because they enable it to glide from tree to tree and thus survive while getting food).
I'm a vegetarian, but I guess these are the main reasons I think people who eat meat justify it:


It tastes really good. I can't deny that. A lot of people get so much enjoyment out of it, it's hard for them to imagine a life without it. They feel they'd be giving up too much enjoyment to stop.
People think animals are not worthy of protection - ie they either do not have interests, or they pale in comparison to a human's interest in eating meat. Some people doubt animal minds even exist, or deny that they can legitimately suffer.
People might decide to get free range meat, "ethically sourced", as they believe that that means the chicken/pig etc had a great life before being killed in an instant without suffering. They might feel that the deal an animal gets is fair - without the farmer, those animals would live a terrible life in the wild with predators preying on them all the time. The farmer can offer them guaranteed safety for a certain length of time, and then, when the time comes, stun them and kill them without them even realizing.


I'm not saying any of these arguments are true - they obviously don't convince me - but it's the kind of thing you hear. Most people also bring up some version of " it's natural, therefore there's nothing wrong with it" which is obviously fallacious. 
Of course, humans are influenced by their senses! I eat because I am hungry. So let’s set aside actions that are non-voluntary. I think what you are trying to say then is that we do not seem to be  motivated to act by reason alone. Many times we are motivated to act by factors like passions (desires, emotions). The question then is what is the motivation for us to act: is it reason or is it passion?  Philosophers in moral psychology have tried to answer this question.  Presently, the question has divided them into Humeans and non-Humeans. As you can see by the name, David Hume’s idea ended up generating a new field in ethics. 

So what is Hume’s idea? Hume argued that reason alone can never be a motive to any voluntary  action, that reason can never oppose passions, and that reason in fact is  the slave of the passions. Hume's idea could sound “Duh” to non-philosophers. But among philosophers, Hume’s idea was  revolutionary. The reason was that philosophers up until Hume had been indoctrinated by the Socratic teaching that all we need for action is reason. 

Under the Socratic’ teaching , we discover moral knowledge through reason, and once we have the knowledge, it is impossible for us to act in any other way than what the knowledge dictates us to do. Moral knowledge has the power to move us.  For this reason, under the teaching, in the struggle between passion and reason, reason must have the dominion over  passions. By contrast, Hume argued that reason cannot move us. Reason is to discover knowledge. Whether scientific or moral, knowledge cannot motivate us to act. If they did, Humeans retort, why people holding the same (moral) knowledge act differently? 

The debate on who is the master and who is the slave continues.
https://i.stack.imgur.com/b6kgl.png 

Cf. “Hume's Moral Philosophy” in SEP and “Moral Motivation” in SEP
Here is my hypothesis:

A personal God can only exist in the form of the human consciousness.
Human consciousness, while being part of the human individuality, is not to be identified to it. Somehow, it is always both inside and outside the human individual that it individualizes as "that" human individual.
And it is exactly this duality of place of the human consciousness that can make it be a personal God: as long as you believe in yourself (in the individuality of your self), you actually believe in a kind of personal God, who is both you (inside you) and your individuality-giving creator (outside you). 
Before getting your specific example, we should specify a few things. First, there's more to Kant than just the Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (you called it "Foundations" -- let's stick with that). There's also the Metaphysics of Morals itself ("MM"), and of particular concern to us, the Tugendlehre (which the second half of "MM") which is often translated "Doctrine of Virtue" or "Metaphysical Principle of Virtue" (we'll say "MPV").

Sticking just to the Foundation,  the formula of humanity is paired with the formula of rationality. The idea behind both is to:


  treat rationality whether in your own person or another as an end and never merely as a means.


Translated a bit, this means that you can never make yourself or anyone a mere tool to an end. (The mere is important but not particularly for your question).

Killing yourself is for Kant in the Foundation always wrong, because you are ending rationality for something else -- and ending it absolutely.

Moving to MPV, Kant has a bit more to say about killing yourself and whether suicide is wrong. The basic framework remains, but Kant does seem to find exceptions for bravely dying for your country and such things.'

BUT it's doubtful Kant would extend that to the example you give. There's two related reasons for this:


Kant believes the categorical imperative is a single united moral principle that should guide all of our action. And this is merely the application of pure reason to the domain of action.
Kant (as the Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone text makes very clear) does not think God could give a command that conflicts with the CI. Instead, God tells us what we would already tell ourselves.


In other words, for Kant, the conflict you describe is impossible, because Kant would not accept that God gives such a command. (In the Religion, Kant explains that Abraham is completely mistaken in believing that God commanded him to kill Isaac (http://maverickphilosopher.typepad.com/maverick_philosopher/2009/08/kant-on-abraham-and-isaac.html see for instance here)).
His argument has five steps on the way to objectivity (why moral principles have to be ojective for Kant is a different question):

Step 1: Only rational beings have a will.


  The will is thought as a capacity to determine itself to action in
  conformity with the representation of certain laws. And such a capacity
  can be found only in rational beings. (4:427)


Why is that so? The reasons are spread out through his work, but essentially it is about will as a causality of freedom as different from a causality of nature (the will can form itself independently from nature). And only rational beings have the capacity of spontaneity, i.e. independence from the causality of nature, as rationality is defined as exactly the faculty to be spontaneous (see CPR A445|B473 ff. and A533|B561 ff.). You could say that iff one is rational, one has a will in the sense of this definition [Wille, i.e. not Willkür].

Step 2: To determine the will, one needs an end.


  Now, what serves the will as the objective ground of its self-determination is the end, and this, if
  it is given by mere reason, must hold equally for all rational beings.
  By contrast, what contains merely the ground of the possibility of an
  action the effect of which is an end is called the means. (ibid)


Pretty self-explanatory. If you want something, the objective ground of determining the will (read: at all) is that you want to achieve an end. This is not about how the will is determined in particular (this includes means, maxims, and all this subjective stuff). The second sentence is important later on: by mere reason means only by the part of the will that is shared by all rational beings qua being rational, that's why it holds equally for all rational beings.

Step 3: Distinction between subjective and objective ends.


  The subjective ground of desiring is the incentive, the objective ground of willing
  the motivating ground; hence the difference between subjective ends,
  which rest on incentives, and objective ones, Which depend on moti-
  vating grounds that hold for every rational being. Practical principles
  are formal if they abstract from all subjective ends; they are material
  if they have these, and hence certain incentives, at their foundation. (ibid)


This is an important distinction if we are speaking about objectivity of morals: If I have an incentive to perform an action, there is no reason to think that every rational being would necessarily share it. That's why we need a formal principle that can nevertheless serve as a motivating ground.

Step 4: If the end of an action is to achieve a certain, determined effect, it is only relative to that effect and the subjective interest in it, i.e. a subjective end in need of an incentive.


  The ends that a rational being intends at its discretion as effects of its
  actions (material ends) are one and all only relative; for merely their
  relation to a particular kind of desiderative faculty of the subject gives
  them their worth, which can therefore furnish no universal principles that are valid as well as necessary for all rational beings, or for all willing, i.e. practical laws. That is why all these relative ends are the
  ground of hypothetical imperatives only. (4:427-8)


Long story short: If my willing is dependent on willing the outcome, my willing will only be so if I have an incentive to achieve the desired effect. This means it cannot serve as objective (formal) principle, but is necessarily material and therefore subjective.

Step 5* (if you do not read carefully): Rational beings are our best guess for objective ends and if there is such a thing, it's them.


  [...] rational beings are called persons, because their nature already
  marks them out as ends in themselves, i.e. as something that may not be
  used merely as a means, and hence to that extent limits all choice (and
  is an object of respect). These are therefore not merely subjective ends,
  the existence of which, as the effect of our action, has a worth for us; but
  rather objective ends, i.e. entities whose existence in itself is an end, an
  end such that no other end can be put in its place, for which they would
  do service merely as means, because without it nothing whatsoever of
  absolute worth could be found; but if all worth were conditional, and
  hence contingent, then for reason no supreme practical principle could
  be found at all.


This one is a bit tricky. He does not really present an argument why we should be ends in ourselves.

Step 5 (Kant explained): Because we realise that we and all other rational beings are setting ends and have lawgiving will, we see that we all - by virtue of setting ends and being able to do so rationally - are ends in ourselves.

He writes:


  That [being an end in itself] is how a
  human being by necessity represents his own existence; to that extent
  it is thus a subjective principle of human actions. But every other rational being also represents its existence in this way, as a consequence
  of just the same rational ground that also holds for me;* thus it is at
  the same time an objective principle from which, as a supreme practical
  ground, it must be possible to derive all laws of the will.
  
  *Here I put this proposition forward as a postulate. The grounds for it will be
  found in the ﬁnal section. (4:429)


I cannot quote and explain the deduction here, but the idea is that he argues that we realise that our capability of rationality and acting under the idea of freedom makes us a part of an intelligible world that we share with all rational beings and that it is this part that enables us to have free, autonomous will just like any other rational being as well.
As far as I remember Kant wrote the "highest good" is honesty in:

KANT, I.  1781.  The canon of pure reason: section II: of the ideal of the highest good, as a determining ground of the ultimate end of pure reason.  (In Weigelt, M. ed. Immanuel Kant: critique of pure reason.  London: Penguin Classics, 2007)
It is just a matter of semantics.

Imagine a line of dominoes. If you were to say:


  "The first falling causes the second to fall and the second falling causes the third to fall"


You would be saying the same thing with 


  "The first falling causes the cause of the third falling".


Presuming you have no problem with the first statement the only problem you might have is semantics.
From the point of view of Neitzsche's "Genealogy of Morals" ethics is the history of changing the meaning of 'happiness' to suit the forces in each era that have the most to gain from controlling mass-cultural behavior.

One of his reactions to this is to use every one of the German synonyms for happiness for something more specific.  Gaiety, cheer, joy, etc. all refer to real emotions with different physiological components.  Merging them all into a single thing called happiness makes for something that the wily can make mean whatever they want.

The ascetic peace of the Anchorite is a form of happiness in submission to a purpose, that many ordinary folks would define as depression induced by boredom due to a limited worldview.  But by their own standards, that is always enough.

He refers to the eventual mangled and diluted notion of natural happiness to which we are headed over time as these manipulations pile up as "wretched contentment", the "happiness" of satiation and stagnant luxury.  Taking Sartre's analogy of nausea as the symptom of evading authentic freedom, this may always 'be enough' for us to live by, but it is also often just a bit too much for us to digest.

So, to answer the question with a question "When is what in particular enough?"
One difference between the two is that arguably, moral statements concern values whereas metaphysical and natural statements concern facts. This means that there's more continuity between natural and metaphysical statements than between natural and moral statements. In practice, this means that moral statements can be reinterpreted as self-expressions for example, or anything without truth value, or whose truth value is not interpreted in terms of correspondance to the world, whereas metaphysical statements cannot (or not so easily).
This is kind of a slippery slope.  If you slide all the way down it, you end up in discussions of human nature, or models like psychoanalysis.  At root, someone like Schopenhauer would say, isn't it obvious that there is only one thing anyone wants?  We may not be able to nail down exactly what that one thing is, but a wide stripe in philosophy starting from the Stoics, and running from Aristotle to Nietzsche has tried to describe it.

Farther out there, people like https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collective_unconscious Jung, http://www.csgss.org/TheTavistockMethod.doc Tavistock group behavior theorists, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaia_hypothesis James Lovelock and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terence_McKenna#Novelty_theory_and_Timewave_Zero Terrence McKenna think it is obvious that there are larger units of the world that all want just one thing, and that the human wish for just one thing is a side-effect of the wishes of these larger units.

Once you back off from the real, tangible wish for something like attention of a certain kind from the real person sitting next to you, you can end up with the will of every organism to accumulate power, or for humanity as a whole to channel emotional energy across generations, or for the universe to balance novelty and entropy.

Except for right at the point of connection, where we do want a specific thing, it is hard to find any other point in between that and the 'theory of everything' where the desire is 'absolutely more real' than at any other point.  If we can't give a better answer with any real faith, then why reject our superficial observation?  I would address this as a case of https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/properties-emergent/#EpiEme multiple realization, and say 'yes, both' -- we always do want something specific, and that simultaneously expresses other desires on multiple other levels.

Someone with a structure for this who writes well is Ken Wilbur.  Starting from the position that these multiple perspectives are all somewhat illusory, he gives a good overview of the layers and levels that different kinds of people have found useful for different kinds of things in http://taisa.si/wp/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/Ken-Wilber-No-Boundary.pdf No Boundary.
Actually, A World without Values isn't a book by J. L. Mackie, it's an anthology which is about his (meta-)ethical philosophy.

As a moral anti-realist, J. L. Mackie doesn't claim that “expressions of value” are objective. To the contrary, his view can be summarized as:


Values are subjective and
humans wrongly believe that their claims or judgments involving values are objective.


He supports his first claim with his argument from queerness, trying to show that moral values would be “qualities or relations of a very strange sort, utterly different from anything else in the universe” 1   – and so with all likelihood do not exist.

The second claim he supports, well, empirically: a “survey” of Western philosophers shows that they were predominantly and explicitly moral realists. Supposedly for ordinary people something similar holds:


  The ordinary user of moral language means to say something about whatever it is that he characterizes morally, for example a possible action, as it is in itself, or would be if it were realized, and not about, or even simply expressive of, his, or anyone else’s, attitude or relation to it. 2 


Finally, he argues, the emotional reaction we observe, when people accept the subjectivity of values, is evidence that they were pretty convinced of the objectivity of values:


  The prevalence of this tendency to objectify values – and not only moral ones – is confirmed by a pattern of thinking that we find in existentialists and those influenced by them. The denial of objective values can carry with it an extreme emotional reaction, a feeling that nothing matters at all, that life has lost its purpose. Of course this does not follow; the lack of objective values is not a good reason for abandoning subjective concern or for ceasing to want anything.[nb: probably he's inconsistent here, it seems like he's making a value-judgment that really sounds like it should be understood objectively. If he thinks that all values are subjective, there's nothing really wrong with abandoning them because one found out they are not objective] But the abandonment of a belief in objective values can cause, at least temporarily, a decay of subjective concern and sense of purpose. That it does so is evidence that the people in whom this reaction occurs have been tending to objectify their concerns and purposes, have been giving them a fictitious external authority. A claim to objectivity has been so strongly associated with their subjective concerns and purposes that the collapse of the former seems to undermine the latter as well. 3



1 J. L. Mackie: Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong, p. 38

2 Ibid., p. 33

3 Ibid., p. 34
Spinoza views everything as modes of attributes of God,and God is eternal and infinitely good. So for him evil does not exist, he said that people view things as evil when they take things independently, but things should not be taken independently because everything; is an extension of God, thus everything is God and God is everything PANTHEISM. This is because our knowledge is limited. Evil exists only for humans, God has no idea of evil because He sees everything in connection to himself.
I believe it's simply a case of a false premise; They are saying "This is impossible, it's a waste of time to discuss impossible solutions, therefore we should not discuss this"  

It's a perfectly valid argument (so no 'fallacy' per se) they're simply basing this argument on false assumptions.
This may sound bewildering but everything we can say is an opinion at best. 


Definitions are purely opinion based. "There are nine planets in the solar system" appears to be a fact, except that the word planet implicitly assumes a definition just like fat does in your example.

"There is a man that weights 500 pounds" implicitly assumes the definitions of its constituent words are well-known. Nevertheless, well-known definitions are definitions, which are opinion based.
Every proposition that is either true or false involves judgement; every judgement is an opinion.
We can say something about the fact, but what we utter are seldom the facts we are referring to; we can speak truth but we rarely speak the fact.

Paris is a fact; everything we can say about Paris are opinions. Paris and what we say about Paris are never one and the same.
Everything we know about the world is inferred from our sensations, i.e. the ultimate source of our knowledge is the mind. We believe the causal origins of our sensations are in the physical world, but this belief is a leap of faith, and, if there is any reason for believing it true, that reason is also based on sensations.

You see a red apple and you firmly believe that that apple is red. Someone else sees the same apple and firmly believes it is yellow. It is possible that both are speaking the truth because colour is a mental event, not an intrinsic property of the apple. It is possible that the same apple which causes red sensation in your head causes yellow sensation in the other person’s head.

As Einstein has pointed out, even such "objective" qualities as mass, length and duration, which used to be thought as intrinsic properties of the objective world, are not independent from the observers.



  Naïve realism leads to physics, and physics, if true, show that naïve realism is false. --Bertrand Russell
  
  Source: Einstein. https://books.google.com/books?id=vLm4oojTPnkC&lpg=PA18&dq=einstein%20%20bertrand%20russell%20I%20owe%20innumerable%20happy%20hours%20to%20the%20reading%20of%20Russells%20work%20mind&pg=PA20#v=onepage&q=Na%C3%AFve%20realism%20leads%20to%20physics,%20and%20physics,%20if%20true,%20show%20that%20na%C3%AFve%20realism%20is%20false&f=false Ideas and Opinions


This piece of pedantry explains why freedom of speech is important in the pursuit of truth.

Source: http://www.ditext.com/russell/rus5.html Knowledge by Acquaintance And Knowledge by Description
I think there is suffering because we call it suffering. If we really dont know the roots of the problems, we tend to interpret them in an evil manner or call it as disaster or suffering, but in an Islamic point of view, there is suffering because there would be no growth without it like the case of Abraham that wanted to sacrifice his son or the case of Khezr that killed a child and broke a ship but all under God's command so that there were no problem.
So suffering is not sth concrete and stable that we can rely on for philosophical discourse. All of us have changed our attitudes toward it since our childhood.
So this question wont have any answer unless one answers this one first : What is suffering?
You are way too narrow in your focus. "How can we decide if this is moral?" It completely depends on your moral beliefs. How can I answer this for you? Only you know exactly what you believe. What does your moral framework say? If it says to pursue self-interest, then Ken was morally correct. If it says to maximize the well-being of as many people as possible, then he probably did not (because more people would have been well if he had waited than jumping the line as far as we can tell from the information).

TL;DR
You are the only one who can answer this question for yourself.
(This is an extended comment, not a properly sourced answer)

I have a feeling that you are looking for an explanation where it is shown that loving/treating two or more people equally results in some sort of contradiction or fallacy. That is not the case. Based on logic alone, there's no apriori reason that an agent can't assign the exact same value/ranking to two distinct entities (or more). 

There might be empirical evidence suggesting that it is impossible to value two other people equally, but that would be a question for psychologists, not philosophers. 

There is a case to be made that "loving" or "valuing" a person looses its meaning if it is applied to too broad a category. I was part of a large social circle that included over a 100 people, and another member of the group told us once that she loved each and every one us and that we were all her special friends. I remember thinking to myself that her statement doesn't really make sense: By definition, a friend is someone you single out for special treatment compared to other people. if everyone in the group was her special friend, then there was nothing special about the friendship. Another way of looking at it is: If everyone is a VIP (Very Important Person), then no one is a VIP - VIP by definition should apply to a small number of people compared to the overall group. 

So although there is no contradiction in valuing more than one person, there is some sort limit on how many people you can value, before the term looses it's meaning. 

In the case of your earlier post about polyamory - which this seems to be a follow up on - there is no inherent contradiction in the idea of polyamory itself. It is possible to say however, that beyond a certain number of partners, the person is no longer polyamorous, they are simply promiscuous.  
I would say Phenomenonlogy and Hermeneutics of Art. But I also suggest reading Adorno on Aesthetic Theory. Adorno addresses Form as well as Meaning of Art.
The left brain controls the right hand. Currently, human beings are left brain dominated this is apparent by the nearly uniform adoption of the right hand for skilled tasks by the species at a rate of 88-92% (Holder, M. K. (1997). "Why are more people right-handed?". Sciam.com. Scientific American Inc. Retrieved 2008-04-14.). I say this because art is a right brain focused activity in that it requires visual-spacial faculties of which are in the right brain ( Shatz, C. J. (2013). "David Hunter Hubel (1926–2013) Neuroscientist who helped to reveal how the brain processes visual information". Nature. 502 (7473): 625). That said, an objective value of art is that it helps to balance the brain by Activating and exercising the right side of the brain so that its useful features are not totally dominated by the left side. In all, art objectively helps to balance the brain and in turn improves the coherence of thought (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3944420/ https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3944420/).
Kant's imperative would say that we should lie in this case just as long as we truly believe we are being compassionate towards our father. Many people argue that his imperative means we should never lie and Kant himself seems to take this view. However, his imperative does not say this, and I believe he made a schoolboy error by suggesting that it is implied. The greatest good is served by compassion, and where a lie is required then the imperative would require that we tell it. It is not a self-serving lie. 

In The Water Babies, his moralising book for children, Kingsley reformulated the rule as 'do as you would be done by' and it seems foolproof in this form.   

So it seems to me that the Kantian and the Utilitarian would both approve of the daughter's action. As for whether she was right to go against his wishes, that is another matter.          
Actually, it isn't most of the times. But in practice, we tend to apply it only on humans.

The theory: it's not only humans

Kant specifies that any rational agent is an end in itself, not only humans. So if angels, robots, aliens or non-human animals can be shown (or suspected, depending on your prudence) to be rational agents, they all have to be treated as ends in themselves according to Kant.

And it is in utilitarianism that the reflection on specism is born, because philosophers like Peter Singer don't restrict their ethics to the minimization of human suffering but extend it to any living being that exhibit the ability to suffer.

The practice: we relate to humans and have moral intertia

The problem is twowfold.

First, we tend to relate to beings we know best and to care to the ones we have created strong relationships with. It is actually the basis of care ethics. So whatever our supposed moral theory, we tend to take great care in applying it and adapting it to those we care about, but we easily dismiss others (e.g. of course we have to fight for voting rights, but that doesn't apply to women and black people, or of course we have to fight against slavery, but we can turn a blind eye if it's applied to people in China and we get iPhones in exchange…)

Second, as shown by researchers like Jonathan Haidt, an experimental moral psychologist, we don't construct a moral theory first and apply it later, we make moral choices first and then rationalize them later, most of the times. And it takes a lot of energy to make us reevaluate our views.

The result is that we created moral theories that don't necessarily exclude non-humans, but we naturally excluded them from their application and now that we realize the problem, e.g. with apes that can talk and create art, with balk at being consistent with our various moral theories.
The way the cases are set up, it’s not clear to me that B advances any argument at all. In the first scenario, A makes a twofold claim:

(1.1) Event XY happened.

(1.2) All XY-type events are miracles.

The conclusion is that a miracle happened. Now, B responds by rejecting (1.2) – and a rejection of a premise/claim isn’t in itself an argument. Of course, B may support her move by providing a natural explanation for XY; but providing an explanation also isn’t in itself an argument.

If there is an argument here, it would be a meta-theoretic argument, to the effect that natural explanations are in some sense better than explanations that reference miracle. What the meta-theoretic argument is exactly, would depend on the details of the case. It may be an instance of Ockham’s Razor; but it may also have to do with the fact that natural explanations have more predictive power, are simpler, can be tested, …

In the second scenario, A makes the same twofold claim as before (except we’re talking of WZ and not XY). Yet this time, B responds by rejecting the first part of the claim, rather than the second. Once again, a rejection isn’t in itself an argument. As before, B may support her move – say by pointing out that the historical sources that speak of WZ are unreliable.

This could again be interpreted as a meta-theoretic argument: assuming that the sources are unreliable, is theoretically better (whatever that means exactly) than accepting that a miracle occurred.

Now, there is a slightly simpler (and much less detailed) way to look at the situation. It seems that B firmly accepts the following claim:

(3) There are no miracles.

In turn, if you combine (3) with (1.2), it logically follows that (1.1) is false. Likewise, if you combine (3) with (1.1), it logically follows that (1.2) is false. The first implication is an instance of modus tollens, the second could just about count as a reductio ad absurdum.
One way to interpret the Categorical Imperative is "Don't be a hypocrite in any thing you do.  Not even to the smallest degree."  Failing to meet this criterion means there are things you consider proper that you would not consider proper if the positions were permuted.  In other words, you are a hypocrite who wishes to hold other individuals to higher standards than yourself.

Humans generally have a strong innate sense of fairness, which is directly offended by hypocrisy.  Unless badly treated for an extended period, people expect a minimum degree of fairness.  So one half of the argument for it is naturalistic:  It amplifies a basic belief that all of us naturally cling to from childhood.  

The other half is somewhat bizarrely abstract.  It proceeds from his notion of categories that that there has to be one and only one such rule that is internally consistent and applies to all cases.  A lot of folks do not accept that premise, because they think the notion of categories and intelligence that Kant starts from are extreme and somewhat arbitrary.  But Kant accepts his own definitions as obvious.

He then proves this rule is internally consistent by using it on a number of cases without getting any contradictions, and he decides that it applies to all cases because it applies to itself: It is itself a maxim that humans, by that naturalistic observation, can will to be universally true.  Meanwhile, the available alternatives do not apply to themselves without generating contradictions, loops or regresses of one sort or another.  Then since he has accepted that any such rule must be the only such rule, it is perfect.
There are definitions in question here.  When you say that the person talking is 


  talking to (in) his- or himself.


I will assume the current psychological definition of a self.  There are many other definitions, if you meant one of those please let us know. An additional assumption I am considering a healthy individual, so we will not be talking about whether multiple personalities constitute different "self" or not. Further, there is an assumption that the self is a single entity in your question so I will not be talking about conversations between say the ego and the id.
Given those constraints, I agree with @Alex there is only one person present.  

As for the follow on question, why do it then? I expect that we do this because the act of speaking changes how we think about a topic. It requires more precision and effort. Helps us to clarify our thoughts.
The question mark may be missing but this looks like a question to me : 'What are First Principles ?'

The term's meaning has shifted more than a little in the history of Western philosophy but Aristotle's characterisation in 'Posterior Analytics', ch. 2 is a reasonable starting point which gives the, or a, basic, sense of the phrase : 


First principles are true
First principles are necessarily true
First principles are indemonstrable - they are not and cannot be deduced from anything else since otherwise the premises from which they are derived would be prior and not the First Principles themselves.
First principles are more certain than anything derived from them - anything derived (deduced) from them can contain errors but first principles are free from any possible error as necessary truths.


An example might be 'If equals are taken from equals, equals remain' ('Post. Anal., 76a). Aristotle would also include the law of excluded middle and the law of non-contradiction ('Metaphysics', 996b). Excluded middle : of two propositions, p and ¬p, one must be true and the other false. So 'p or not-p' : 'p' must be true, or 'not-p' must be true. One or other must be true but both cannot be true. By the law of non-contradiction : ¬p(p and ¬p) (not both p and not-p). In other words, no proposition and its negation can simultaneously be true. (Thanks to Peter J on this.)

Before the waves inundate let me just say that I do not endorse first principles, Aristotle's or others, and I do not commit myself to Aristotle's examples as meeting the requirements of his characterisation of first principles. I am simply trying to convey a first idea of what First Principles are or have traditionally widely taken to be. 
I'll assume you want to analyse this within a rule-utilitarian framework [*]. On that assumption, I think you can refute the proposition "rule utilitarianism implies depressed people should be killed" using an instance of a fairly general argument template, regardless of what utility measure you prefer. The general idea is to argue that even if there were positive gains in utility following from implementing the rule, the "indirect" suffering caused by living in a society where such a rule was implemented would greatly outweigh the "direct" positive gains (again, assuming such gains existed). 

Assume for the sake of contradiction rule utilitarianism implied the rule "depressed people should be killed". Consider that the lifetime prevalence of mood disorders is https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15939837 about 20%. Hence, (on our assumption) reasonable persons should judge it relatively likely they could be killed because of depressive episodes. The angst and worry following from the prospect that one had a fair chance of being killed because of depression and that one with virtual certainty again and again would see friends and family be killed because of depression would presumably lead to great suffering in the general population – significantly outweighing any potential "gains" reaped by killing the depressives. (For even more support for the proposition that the net utility delta is negative, you could also consider the fact that most cases of depression are treatable.) Such a rule, which greatly promotes suffering, cannot be a rule of rule utilitarianism.   

[*] I'm pretty certain you can give a somewhat similar argument in most act-utilitarian settings, but that's a different story.
Aristotle would have said that generation & corruption are both aspects of change. 

Power is neccessary to the individual and to the social body. When it is used well, it generates strength; and when it is used badly, it generates weakness, that is it corrupts. 

We say power corrupts because it magnifies the deficiencies and flaws of he who wields it, as well as his virtues. Power that is wielded well often let's the virtues of others to flourish. The Dao would say that he who rules withdraws, and the people believe that they rule themselves, not seeing the hidden hand. Whereas power that is wielded badly is often very visible. 
This is a thought-provoking question. The essence of lying is an intention to deceive, though not all intentions to deceive involves lying : if I deceive you by impersonating someone, I have not lied to you. For the sake of a little more rigour one might define lying like this :


  A person S tells a lie iff: 1. S makes a false statement x, 2. S believes
   that x is false or probably false (or, alternatively, S doesn't believe that x 
   is true), and 3. S intends to deceive another person by means of stating x (by
   stating x, S intends to cause another person to have false beliefs). ( Thomas 
   L. Carson, 'The Definition of Lying', Noûs, Vol. 40, No. 2 (Jun., 2006), 
   p.287.)


'Iff' = 'if and only if'. We can work with this definition and if we do, we see that lying is not lying. The definition is a bit tangled but is about right.

In no sense of lying that we've looked at so far is acting, or does it involve, lying. But your question is not to be so quickly terminated. After all, lying does involve simulation. It is not a game but it is a form of pretending. The situation and the characters represented on stage or on film or in street theatre are, as Plato might say, a step or degree removed from reality. The actors are real but their stage or film characters are only representations of reality - the actors in the 1997 movie, 'Titanic', simulate reality.

The degree of removal from reality is greater when the situations or characters represented are fantasy figures - as in a film or stage production of 'Gulliver's Travels'.  

There's another point, too. 'Titanic' - and this is true of any number of other movies - is not only not reality but a simulation of representation of it, there are degrees of accuracy of representation. 'Titanic' is not close history; it contains factual errors. See : https://www.moviemistakes.com/film1299/factual/pageall https://www.moviemistakes.com/film1299/factual/pageall

So I'd say that though acting is not lying it resembles lying in involving an element of pretending and simulation and, in some cases, misrepresentation.

  In place of my own interests, I now have to take into account the
  interests of all those affected by my decision. This requires me to
  weigh up all these interests and adopt the course of action most
  likely to maximize the interests of those affected. Thus at least at
  some level [in very unusual circumstances] in my moral reasoning I must choose the course of action that has the best consequences, on balance, for all affected. ~ p 13 Practical Ethics


Preferences need to have weight or else it doesn't modify behavior at all. For example, a malnourished child's preference to be fed has to outweigh a banker's desire to own a second yacht for preference utilitarianism to be coherent.

Or substitute the banker's yacht for your desire to go to a movie. My point is that it appears like preferences need to be weighed or else preference utilitarianism just means everyone does what they were going to do anyway. Preferences would cancel out: a professor not wanting each student to cheat versus any one of the students who wants to cheat; a son preferring to lie, where his mother preferring him to tell her the truth. 

The best action is what satisfies the most preferences or desires. From the literature on this, it appears many preferences are applicable per situation. This, opposed to say, the most obvious preference or an over-residing type of preference.


  Are all preferences equal? Not all preferences can be treated equally,
  however. A serial killer has a desire to kill innocent people and a
  medical student has a desire to give people medical assistance, but
  the satisfaction of the latter desire would lead to the satisfaction
  of the desires of many others, while the satisfaction of the former
  desire would decrease the preference satisfaction of many
  others--those that he kills. So preferences should be ordered in
  importance as follows:
  
  (1) Preferences whose satisfaction contributes to the preference
  satisfaction of others
  
  (2) Preferences whose satisfaction is neutral to the preference
  satisfaction of others.
  
  (3) Preferences whose satisfaction decreases the preference
  satisfaction of others.
  
  Moreover, we ought to factor in the strength [my emphasis] of
  preferences or desires. Clearly, all else being equal, the
  satisfaction of a strong desire should outweigh the satisfaction of a
  mild desire. ~ http://theaetetus.tamu.edu/phil-111/victor/moral/Utilitarianism.pdf#page=4 Victor's Utilitarianism lectures part I 


In other words, there is a preference calculus.




http://users.ox.ac.uk/~sfop0060/pdf/can%20there%20be%20a%20preference-based%20utilitarianism.pdf Can there be a preference-based utilitarianism?
http://Utilitarianismhttp://web.archive.org/web/20180210220741/https://escholarship.org/content/qt1x32m32n/qt1x32m32n.pdf#page=3 Manipulation of Preferences and Relative Utilitarianism 
https://books.google.com/books?id=H923FD34_9MC&pg=PA28#v=onepage&q&f=false Refuting Peter Singer's Ethical Theory
https://books.google.com/books?id=PMbaDgIDgqQC&pg=PA187#v=onepage&q&f=false Preference Utilitarianism by Way of Preference Change?


Something different below?


http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home/ykng/Ng1999SCW.pdf http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home/ykng/Ng1999SCW.pdf

There's a lot going on in the body of your question, but I'm only going to address the Kant part.

Kant's position is subtly different than what you are claiming. For a thorough discussion, see https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-spacetime/ the SEP article on Kant's view on time and space.

I'm primarily just going to work from that and try to simplify it with reference to precisely what you are claiming and asking. Let's start, however, by distinguishing two things:


The claim that time and space do not exist objectively.
The claim that I have no objective unfiltered access to time and space.


On my reading, Kant is committed to something close to 2 but not to 1. 1 is a claim about what isn't "out there." 2 is a claim about the way minds work.

Thus, Kant states 


  Space is not an empirical concept which has been derived from outer experiences. For in order that certain sensations be referred to something outside me (that is, to something in another region of space from that in which I find myself), and similarly in order that I may be able to represent them as outside and alongside one another, and accordingly as not only different but as in different places, the representation of space must already underlie them [dazu muß die Vorstellung des Raumes schon zum Grunde liegen]. Therefore, the representation of space cannot be obtained through experience from the relations of outer appearance; this outer experience is itself possible at all only through that representation (Critique of Pure Reason A23/B38 as quoted at SEP).


The idea here is that space for the subject is not something we experienced and then abstracted as an idea. Instead, it 's something that we have to bring to our experience to experience anything in space:


  
  Space is a necessary a priori representation that underlies all outer intuitions (A24/B38-9 also from SEP).
  


For Kant, "space" is a concept we bring when we experience. This is a major part of Kant's philosophy -- the idea that we do not have unmediated access to an "out there." For some people, this sounds like crazy talk; for others, this seems obvious. But the basic picture for Kant is that we bring framing devices that structure our experience of things and what we encounter is structured according to them (to get technical we bring "manifolds of sensibility" in time and space and "categories of the understanding" (12 exactly for Kant) which we use to understand objects).

This highlights that Kant believes 2. To see that Kant does not believe 1, we go to the refutation of idealism which occurs only in the B version. Again, there's a helpful https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-transcendental/#RefIde SEP article. The basic thrust of the refutation of idealism is that the time and space we experience really are linked to an out there and are not products of our imagination. (See https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/9631/kants-refutation-of-idealism this question for more discussion), but we experience them through the space and time we have as part of our knowing apparatus.

To give an analogy, Kant's view is that we have an operating system that loads in "time" and "space" before we can experience anything. And then if we want to understand an object, when we try to understand something we automatically bring concepts with us. For Kant, (on most sympathetic interpretations) this is not a denial of the underlying thing behind what we try to understand but only a statement of what we bring to the task of knowing.

Schopenhauer is not merely following Kant but removing the underlying realism about what is "out there." Maybe that makes Schopenhauer more consistent considering this is one of the stickiest problems in Kant scholarship.
It is easy to generate a hoard of such examples by ascribing to identity, and therefore to autonomy, what is merely an accident, a condition or a sentiment.


Obviously, not everyone can live in my house.  So one could try to
generalize that, fail, and find that I should not live in my house. 
But ownership is just an accident of my legal identity.
If I am suffering to the point that I am suicidal, I might prefer to be
killed, so I might generalize a rule that one should kill people who
are useless, or who are sad, or who have lived past a given age... 
But suicidality is often an aspect of a disease, which is just a
physical condition.
A cynical religionist might wish to undercut the argument against
lying.  If holding onto a misleading fact improves the cohesion of
my community, I might wish to generalize a distiction between good
and bad lies, and I could probably find an obligation to tell
certain lies when controverting them undercuts social order or
causes needless fear.  But loyalty to a power structure 
is just a sentiment.


The rules one needs to put around maxims to exclude these kinds of conditions is slippery, and is not handled very well even by Kant himself.  One anodyne is to think in terms of how categories apply to species other than humans.  Angels don't own anything, God is never ill, dolphins don't appear to have religion...
For Plato, all the higher virtues stem from letting the better part of your nature rule the worse part.  So the just person --as is true for the wise person or the good person-- must have reason ruling over appetite and spirit.  The idea that there should be some fairness or equality between the parts of the soul isn't really a Platonic idea.

The only virtue reserved for the spirited person is honor (or at least the love of honor), which accordingly must be lower in the Platonic hierarchy.
Here is how St. Thomas Aquinas, in his https://isidore.co/aquinas/DePrincNaturae.htm De principiis naturæ §§6-7, explains generation and corruption:


  
  Because generation is a motion to form, there is a twofold generation corresponding to this twofold form. Generation simpliciter ["simply"] corresponds to the substantial form and generation secundum quid ["according to something"] corresponds to the accidental form. When a substantial form is introduced we say that something comes into being simpliciter, for example we say that man comes into being or man is generated [something]. But when an accidental form is introduced, we do not say that something comes into being simpliciter, but that it comes into being as this; for example when man comes into being as white, we do not say simpliciter that man comes into being or is generated, but that he comes into being or is generated as white [somehow].
  There is a twofold corruption [corruptio] opposed to this twofold generation: simpliciter and secundum quid. Generation and corruption simpliciter are only in the genus of substance, but generation and corruption secundum quid are in all the other genera. Also, because generation is a change from non-existence to existence, contrarily, corruption should be from existence to non-existence. However, generation does not take place from just any non-being, but from the non-being which is being in potency; for example a statue comes to be from bronze which is a statue in potency and not in act.
  

▻ SHIFT OF POSITION

Your friend shifts position on interaction : first it is 'simply knowing that there are other objects and being aware of their movements and actions'. Then it becomes 'detecting the presence of another object and modifying behaviour according to the movements of that object'.

It can't be both : the second involves more than simply knowing. It adds the modification of behaviour in the light of knowledge. Assume that the second formula marks the one your friend's revised position. We'll work with that.

Strictly speaking, interaction involves the action of two or more things on each other. Your friend only refers to the action of one object, the car, not on the other or of the other on it. One car simply maneouvres away from the other. But words have shades of meaning. The situation you describe can be called one of interaction. 

Does this formula, 'detecting the presence of another object and modifying behaviour according to the movements of that object', reduce or equate to cause and effect ? In the context you describe, I think it does. 

▻ CAUSATION 

Causation remains one of the most contentious concepts in philosophy but I am inclined to say that the formula does reduce or equate to cause and effect. But first, a bit of clarification.

I take the view that A is 'the' cause of B if and only if the occurrence of A is sufficient for that of B. If A is not sufficient but only necessary, then it is only 'a' cause of B. 

So : if (A) contracting the H7N9 virus is sufficient for (B) catching influenza
then (A) is the cause of (B). (If.)

But if dropping a lighted match (A) is not sufficient for (B) the factory's burning down since the fire would not have come about if (C) a worker had not noticed the incipient fire and ignored it and (D) someone had happened once the fire had started, to place inflammatory material near the fire, then the fire would not have happened, dropping the match is a cause of the fire. All else equal the fire would not have happened without it; it was necessary for the fire. 

▻ INTERACTION IS A CAUSAL RELATION

For ease of statement, let's assume we're talking about 'the' cause. Is (a) detecting the presence of another object the cause of (b) modified behaviour according to the movements of that object ? An automated car is programmed to behave in certain ways. Given its program, it does not have a choice of behaviour. In defined conditions - detecting an object - it modifies its behaviour, e.g. by moving away from the object. 'It modifies its behaviour' means 'Its behaviour alters' and its behaviour alters because the car has been programmed to do so. The 'because' here is causal : the existence of the active program is the cause of the alteration in the car's behaviour. 

▻ FOOTNOTE

My definition of causation can be disputed but it is fairly standard and appears to inform the ordinary ways in which we talk and think of one thing causing another. It is capable of more sophisticated statement; it is capable of rejection by someone who sees causation quite differently or doesn't accept the idea of causation at all. But this is my answer, so I use my own understanding. 

It is perfectly possible that AI will produce 'thinking' cars which are not causally controlled by their programs as the car in the example is. But given the car in the example, you are in my view quite right to refer to cause and effect.
